<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<TEI>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>
     Shadowings
    </title>
    <author>
     Lafcadio Hearn
    </author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <date>
     2010-11-05
    </date>
   </publicationStmt>
  </fileDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <body>
  <p>
   <div>
    <head>
     The Reconciliation
    </head>
   </div>
   <p>
    <p>
     THERE was a young Samurai of Kyōto who
had been reduced to poverty by the ruin
of his lord, and found himself obliged to
leave his home, and to take service with the
Governor of a distant province. Before quitting
the capital, this Samurai divorced his wife,—a
good and beautiful woman,—under the belief
that he could better obtain promotion by another
alliance. He then married the daughter of a
family of some distinction, and took her with
him to the district whither he had been called.
    </p>
    <p>
     But it was in the time of the thoughtlessness
of youth, and the sharp experience of want, that
the Samurai could not understand the worth of
the affection so lightly cast away. His second
marriage did not prove a happy one; the character
of his new wife was hard and selfish; and he
    </p>
    <p>
     soon found every cause to think with regret of
Kyōto days. Then he discovered that he still
loved his first wife—loved her more than he
could ever love the second; and he began to feel
how unjust and how thankless he had been.
Gradually his repentance deepened into a remorse
that left him no peace of mind. Memories
of the woman he had wronged—her gentle
speech, her smiles, her dainty, pretty ways, her
faultless patience—continually haunted him.
Sometimes in dreams he saw her at her loom,
weaving as when she toiled night and day to
help him during the years of their distress: more
often he saw her kneeling alone in the desolate
little room where he had left her, veiling her
tears with her poor worn sleeve. Even in the
hours of official duty, his thoughts would wander
back to her: then he would ask himself how she
was living, what she was doing. Something in
his heart assured him that she could not accept
another husband, and that she never would refuse
to pardon him. And he secretly resolved to seek
her out as soon as he could return to Kyōto,—then
to beg her forgiveness, to take her back, to
do everything that a man could do to make
atonement. But the years went by.
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     At last the Governor's official term expired,
and the Samurai was free. "Now I will go back
to my dear one," he vowed to himself. "Ah,
what a cruelty,—what a folly to have divorced
her!" He sent his second wife to her own
people (she had given him no children); and
hurrying to Kyōto, he went at once to seek his
former companion,—not allowing himself even
the time to change his travelling-garb.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he reached the street where she used to
live, it was late in the night,—the night of the
tenth day of the ninth month;—and the city
was silent as a cemetery. But a bright moon
made everything visible; and he found the house
without difficulty. It had a deserted look: tall
weeds were growing on the roof. He knocked
at the sliding-doors, and no one answered. Then,
finding that the doors had not been fastened from
within, he pushed them open, and entered. The
front room was matless and empty: a chilly wind
was blowing through crevices in the planking;
and the moon shone through a ragged break in
the wall of the alcove. Other rooms presented
a like forlorn condition. The house, to all seeming,
was unoccupied. Nevertheless, the Samurai
    </p>
    <p>
     determined to visit one other apartment at the
further end of the dwelling,—a very small room
that had been his wife's favorite resting-place.
Approaching the sliding-screen that closed it, he
was startled to perceive a glow within. He
pushed the screen aside, and uttered a cry of
joy; for he saw her there,—sewing by the light
of a paper-lamp. Her eyes at the same instant
met his own; and with a happy smile she greeted
him,—asking only:—"When did you come
back to Kyōto? How did you find your way
here to me, through all those black rooms?"
The years had not changed her. Still she seemed
as fair and young as in his fondest memory of
her;—but sweeter than any memory there came
to him the music of her voice, with its trembling
of pleased wonder.
    </p>
    <p>
     Then joyfully he took his place beside her,
and told her all:—how deeply he repented his
selfishness,—how wretched he had been without
her,—how constantly he had regretted her,—how
long he had hoped and planned to make
amends;—caressing her the while, and asking
her forgiveness over and over again. She answered
him, with loving gentleness, according to
his heart's desire,—entreating him to cease all
    </p>
    <p>
     self-reproach. It was wrong, she said, that he
should have allowed himself to suffer on her account:
she had always felt that she was not
worthy to be his wife. She knew that he had
separated from her, notwithstanding, only because
of poverty; and while he lived with her,
he had always been kind; and she had never
ceased to pray for his happiness. But even if
there had been a reason for speaking of amends,
this honorable visit would be ample amends;—what
greater happiness than thus to see him
again, though it were only for a moment?
"Only for a moment!" he answered, with a
glad laugh,—"say, rather, for the time of
seven existences! My loved one, unless you
forbid, I am coming back to live with you always—always—always!
Nothing shall ever
separate us again. Now I have means and
friends: we need not fear poverty. To-morrow
my goods will be brought here; and my
servants will come to wait upon you; and we
shall make this house beautiful.... To-night,"
he added, apologetically, "I came thus late—without
even changing my dress—only because
of the longing I had to see you, and to tell you
this." She seemed greatly pleased by these
    </p>
    <p>
     words; and in her turn she told him about all
that had happened in Kyōto since the time of
his departure,—excepting her own sorrows, of
which she sweetly refused to speak. They
chatted far into the night: then she conducted
him to a warmer room, facing south,—a room
that had been their bridal chamber in former
time. "Have you no one in the house to help
you?" he asked, as she began to prepare the
couch for him. "No," she answered, laughing
cheerfully: "I could not afford a servant;—so
I have been living all alone." "You will have
plenty of servants to-morrow," he said,—"good
servants,—and everything else that you need."
They lay down to rest,—not to sleep: they had
too much to tell each other;—and they talked
of the past and the present and the future, until
the dawn was grey. Then, involuntarily, the
Samurai closed his eyes, and slept.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he awoke, the daylight was streaming
through the chinks of the sliding-shutters; and
he found himself, to his utter amazement, lying
upon the naked boards of a mouldering floor....
Had he only dreamed a dream? No:
she was there;—she slept.... He bent above
    </p>
    <p>
     her,—and looked,—and shrieked;—for the
sleeper had no face!... Before him, wrapped in
its grave-sheet only, lay the corpse of a woman,—a
corpse so wasted that little remained save the
bones, and the long black tangled hair.
    </p>
    <p>
     Slowly,—as he stood shuddering and sickening
in the sun,—the icy horror yielded to a despair
so intolerable, a pain so atrocious, that he
clutched at the mocking shadow of a doubt.
Feigning ignorance of the neighborhood, he
ventured to ask his way to the house in
which his wife had lived.
    </p>
    <p>
     "There is no one in that house," said the person
questioned. "It used to belong to the wife
of a Samurai who left the city several years ago.
He divorced her in order to marry another
woman before he went away; and she fretted
a great deal, and so became sick. She had no
relatives in Kyōto, and nobody to care for her;
and she died in the autumn of the same year,—on
the tenth day of the ninth month...."
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      A Legend of Fugen-Bosatsu
     </head>
     [2]
    </div>
    <p>
     [2]
 From the old story-book, Jikkun-shō
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      A Legend of Fugen-Bosatsu
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     THERE was once a very pious and learned
priest, called Shōku Shōnin, who lived in
the province of Harima. For many years
he meditated daily upon the chapter of Fugen-Bosatsu
[the Bodhisattva Samantabhadra] in the
Sûtra of the Lotos of the Good Law; and he
used to pray, every morning and evening, that
he might at some time be permitted to behold
Fugen-Bosatsu as a living presence, and in the
form described in the holy text.[3]
    </p>
    <p>
     [3]
 The priest's desire was probably inspired by the
promises recorded in the chapter entitled "The Encouragement
of Samantabhadra" (see Kern's translation of the
Saddharma Pundarîka in the Sacred Books of the East,—pp.
433-434):—"Then the Bodhisattva Mahâsattva Samantabhadra
said to the Lord: ... 'When a preacher who
applies himself to this Dharmaparyâya shall take a walk,
then, O Lord, will I mount a white elephant with six tusks,
and betake myself to the place where that preacher is
walking, in order to protect this Dharmaparyâya. And
when that preacher, applying himself to this Dharmaparyâya,
forgets, be it but a single word or syllable, then
will I mount the white elephant with six tusks, and show
my face to that preacher, and repeat this entire Dharmaparyâya."—But
these promises refer to "the end of
time."
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     One evening, while he was reciting the Sûtra,
drowsiness overcame him; and he fell asleep
leaning upon his kyōsoku.[4] Then he dreamed;
and in his dream a voice told him that, in order
to see Fugen-Bosatsu, he must go to the house
of a certain courtesan, known as the "Yujō-no-Chōja,"[5]
who lived in the town of Kanzaki.
Immediately upon awakening he resolved to go
to Kanzaki;—and, making all possible haste, he
reached the town by the evening of the next
day.
    </p>
    <p>
     [4]
 The Kyōsoku is a kind of padded arm-rest, or arm-stool,
upon which the priest leans one arm while reading.
The use of such an arm-rest is not confined, however, to
the Buddhist clergy.
    </p>
    <p>
     [5]
 A yujō, in old days, was a singing-girl as well as a
courtesan. The term "Yujō-no-Chōja," in this case,
would mean simply "the first (or best) of yujō."
    </p>
    <p>
     When he entered the house of the yujō, he
found many persons already there assembled—mostly
young men of the capital, who had been
attracted to Kanzaki by the fame of the woman's
    </p>
    <p>
     beauty. They were feasting and drinking; and
the yujō was playing a small hand-drum (tsuzumi),
which she used very skilfully, and singing
a song. The song which she sang was an
old Japanese song about a famous shrine in
the town of Murozumi; and the words were
these:—
    </p>
    <p>
     Within the sacred water-tank[6] of Murozumi in Suwō,
Even though no wind be blowing,
The surface of the water is always rippling.
    </p>
    <p>
     [6]
 Mitarai. Mitarai (or mitarashi) is the name especially
given to the water-tanks, or water-fonts—of stone or
bronze—placed before Shintō shrines in order that the
worshipper may purify his lips and hands before making
prayer. Buddhist tanks are not so named.
    </p>
    <p>
     The sweetness of the voice filled everybody
with surprise and delight. As the priest, who
had taken a place apart, listened and wondered,
the girl suddenly fixed her eyes upon him; and
in the same instant he saw her form change into
the form of Fugen-Bosatsu, emitting from her
brow a beam of light that seemed to pierce beyond
the limits of the universe, and riding a
snow-white elephant with six tusks. And still
    </p>
    <p>
     she sang—but the song also was now transformed;
and the words came thus to the ears
of the priest:—
    </p>
    <p>
     On the Vast Sea of Cessation,
Though the Winds of the Six Desires and of the Five Corruptions never blow,
Yet the surface of that deep is always covered
With the billowings of Attainment to the Reality-in-Itself.
    </p>
    <p>
     Dazzled by the divine ray, the priest closed
his eyes: but through their lids he still distinctly
saw the vision. When he opened them again, it
was gone: he saw only the girl with her hand-drum,
and heard only the song about the water
of Murozumi. But he found that as often as
he shut his eyes he could see Fugen-Bosatsu
on the six-tusked elephant, and could hear the
mystic Song of the Sea of Cessation. The other
persons present saw only the yujō: they had not
beheld the manifestation.
    </p>
    <p>
     Then the singer suddenly disappeared from
the banquet-room—none could say when or
how. From that moment the revelry ceased;
and gloom took the place of joy. After having
waited and sought for the girl to no purpose,
    </p>
    <p>
     the company dispersed in great sorrow. Last
of all, the priest departed, bewildered by the
emotions of the evening. But scarcely had he
passed beyond the gate, when the yujō appeared
before him, and said:—"Friend, do not speak
yet to any one of what you have seen this
night." And with these words she vanished
away,—leaving the air filled with a delicious
fragrance.
    </p>
    <p>
     The monk by whom the foregoing legend was
recorded, comments upon it thus:—The condition
of a yujō is low and miserable, since she is
condemned to serve the lusts of men. Who
therefore could imagine that such a woman
might be the nirmanakaya, or incarnation, of
a Bodhisattva. But we must remember that
the Buddhas and the Bodhisattvas may appear
in this world in countless different forms; choosing,
for the purpose of their divine compassion,
even the most humble or contemptible shapes
when such shapes can serve them to lead men
into the true path, and to save them from the
perils of illusion.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Screen-Maiden
     </head>
     [7]
    </div>
    <p>
     [7]
 Related in the Otogi-Hyaku-Monogatari
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Screen-Maiden
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     SAYS the old Japanese author, Hakubai-En
Rosui:—[8]
    </p>
    <p>
     "In Chinese and in Japanese books there
are related many stories,—both of ancient and
of modern times,—about pictures that were so
beautiful as to exercise a magical influence upon
the beholder. And concerning such beautiful
pictures,—whether pictures of flowers or of birds
or of people, painted by famous artists,—it is
further told that the shapes of the creatures or
    </p>
    <p>
     the persons, therein depicted, would separate
themselves from the paper or the silk upon which
they had been painted, and would perform various
acts;—so that they became, by their own
will, really alive. We shall not now repeat any
of the stories of this class which have been known
to everybody from ancient times. But even in
modern times the fame of the pictures painted
by Hishigawa Kichibei—'Hishigawa's Portraits'—has
become widespread in the land."
    </p>
    <p>
     [8]
 He died in the eighteenth year of Kyōhō (1733). The
painter to whom he refers—better known to collectors as
Hishigawa Kichibei Moronobu—flourished during the
latter part of the seventeenth century. Beginning his
career as a dyer's apprentice, he won his reputation as an
artist about 1680, when he may be said to have founded
the Ukiyo-yé school of illustration. Hishigawa was especially
a delineator of what are called fūryū, ("elegant manners"),—the
aspects of life among the upper classes of society.
    </p>
    <p>
     He then proceeds to relate the following story
about one of the so-called portraits:—
    </p>
    <p>
     There was a young scholar of Kyōto whose
name was Tokkei. He used to live in the street
called Muromachi. One evening, while on his
way home after a visit, his attention was attracted
by an old single-leaf screen (tsuitaté), exposed
for sale before the shop of a dealer in second-hand
goods. It was only a paper-covered screen;
but there was painted upon it the full-length
figure of a girl which caught the young man's
fancy. The price asked was very small: Tokkei
bought the screen, and took it home with him.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he looked again at the screen, in the
solitude of his own room, the picture seemed to
    </p>
    <p>
     him much more beautiful than before. Apparently
it was a real likeness,—the portrait of a
girl fifteen or sixteen years old; and every little
detail in the painting of the hair, eyes, eyelashes,
mouth, had been executed with a delicacy and
a truth beyond praise. The manajiri[9] seemed
"like a lotos-blossom courting favor"; the lips
were "like the smile of a red flower"; the whole
young face was inexpressibly sweet. If the real
girl so portrayed had been equally lovely, no man
could have looked upon her without losing his
heart. And Tokkei believed that she must have
been thus lovely;—for the figure seemed alive,—ready
to reply to anybody who might speak
to it.
    </p>
    <p>
     [9]
 Also written méjiri,—the exterior canthus of the eye.
The Japanese (like the old Greek and the old Arabian poets)
have many curious dainty words and similes to express
particular beauties of the hair, eyes, eyelids, lips, fingers,
etc.
    </p>
    <p>
     Gradually, as he continued to gaze at the picture,
he felt himself bewitched by the charm of
it. "Can there really have been in this world,"
he murmured to himself, "so delicious a creature?
How gladly would I give my life—nay, a thousand
years of life!—to hold her in my arms
    </p>
    <p>
     even for a moment!" (The Japanese author
says "for a few seconds.") In short, he became
enamoured of the picture,—so much enamoured
of it as to feel that he never could love any
woman except the person whom it represented.
Yet that person, if still alive, could no longer
resemble the painting: perhaps she had been
buried long before he was born!
    </p>
    <p>
     Day by day, nevertheless, this hopeless passion
grew upon him. He could not eat; he could not
sleep: neither could he occupy his mind with
those studies which had formerly delighted him.
He would sit for hours before the picture, talking
to it,—neglecting or forgetting everything else.
And at last he fell sick—so sick that he believed
himself going to die.
    </p>
    <p>
     Now among the friends of Tokkei there was
one venerable scholar who knew many strange
things about old pictures and about young hearts.
This aged scholar, hearing of Tokkei's illness,
came to visit him, and saw the screen, and understood
what had happened. Then Tokkei, being
questioned, confessed everything to his friend,
and declared:—"If I cannot find such a woman,
I shall die."
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     The old man said:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "That picture was painted by Hishigawa
Kichibei,—painted from life. The person whom
it represented is not now in the world. But it is
said that Hishigawa Kichibei painted her mind as
well as her form, and that her spirit lives in the
picture. So I think that you can win her."
    </p>
    <p>
     Tokkei half rose from his bed, and stared
eagerly at the speaker.
    </p>
    <p>
     "You must give her a name," the old man
continued;—"and you must sit before her picture
every day, and keep your thoughts constantly
fixed upon her, and call her gently by the name
which you have given her, until she answers
you...."
    </p>
    <p>
     "Answers me!" exclaimed the lover, in
breathless amazement.
    </p>
    <p>
     "Oh, yes," the adviser responded, "she will
certainly answer you. But you must be ready,
when she answers you, to present her with what
I am going to tell you...."
    </p>
    <p>
     "I will give her my life!" cried Tokkei.
    </p>
    <p>
     "No," said the old man;—"you will present
her with a cup of wine that has been bought at
one hundred different wine-shops. Then she will
come out of the screen to accept the wine. After
    </p>
    <p>
     that, probably she herself will tell you what
to do."
    </p>
    <p>
     With these words the old man went away.
His advice aroused Tokkei from despair. At
once he seated himself before the picture, and
called it by the name of a girl—(what name the
Japanese narrator has forgotten to tell us)—over
and over again, very tenderly. That day it
made no answer, nor the next day, nor the next.
But Tokkei did not lose faith or patience; and
after many days it suddenly one evening answered
to its name,—
    </p>
    <p>
     "Hai!" (Yes.)
    </p>
    <p>
     Then quickly, quickly, some of the wine from
a hundred different wine-shops was poured out,
and reverentially presented in a little cup. And
the girl stepped from the screen, and walked
upon the matting of the room, and knelt to
take the cup from Tokkei's hand,—asking, with
a delicious smile:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "How could you love me so much?"
    </p>
    <p>
     Says the Japanese narrator: "She was much
more beautiful than the picture,—beautiful to
the tips of her finger-nails,—beautiful also in
heart and temper,—lovelier than anybody else
in the world." What answer Tokkei made to
    </p>
    <p>
     her question is not recorded: it will have to be
imagined.
    </p>
    <p>
     "But will you not soon get tired of me?" she
asked.
    </p>
    <p>
     "Never while I live!" he protested.
    </p>
    <p>
     "And after—?" she persisted;—for the
Japanese bride is not satisfied with love for one
life-time only.
    </p>
    <p>
     "Let us pledge ourselves to each other," he
entreated, "for the time of seven existences."
    </p>
    <p>
     "If you are ever unkind to me," she said, "I
will go back to the screen."
    </p>
    <p>
     They pledged each other. I suppose that
Tokkei was a good boy,—for his bride never
returned to the screen. The space that she had
occupied upon it remained a blank.
    </p>
    <p>
     Exclaims the Japanese author,—
    </p>
    <p>
     "How very seldom do such things happen in
this world!"
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Corpse-Rider
     </head>
     [10]
    </div>
    <p>
     [10]
 From the Konséki-Monogatari
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Corpse-Rider
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     THE body was cold as ice; the heart had
long ceased to beat: yet there were no
other signs of death. Nobody even spoke
of burying the woman. She had died of grief
and anger at having been divorced. It would
have been useless to bury her,—because the last
undying wish of a dying person for vengeance
can burst asunder any tomb and rift the heaviest
graveyard stone. People who lived near the
house in which she was lying fled from their
homes. They knew that she was only waiting
for the return of the man who had divorced her.
    </p>
    <p>
     At the time of her death he was on a journey.
When he came back and was told what had happened,
terror seized him. "If I can find no help
before dark," he thought to himself, "she will
tear me to pieces." It was yet only the Hour of
    </p>
    <p>
     the Dragon;[11] but he knew that he had no time
to lose.
    </p>
    <p>
     [11]
 Tatsu no Koku, or the Hour of the Dragon, by old
Japanese time, began at about eight o'clock in the morning.
    </p>
    <p>
     He went at once to an inyōshi[12] and begged for
succor. The inyōshi knew the story of the dead
woman; and he had seen the body. He said to
the supplicant:—"A very great danger threatens
you. I will try to save you. But you must
promise to do whatever I shall tell you to do.
There is only one way by which you can be
saved. It is a fearful way. But unless you find
the courage to attempt it, she will tear you limb
from limb. If you can be brave, come to me
again in the evening before sunset." The man
shuddered; but he promised to do whatever
should be required of him.
    </p>
    <p>
     [12]
 Inyōshi, a professor or master of the science of in-yō,—the
old Chinese nature-philosophy, based upon the
theory of a male and a female principle pervading the
universe.
    </p>
    <p>
     At sunset the inyōshi went with him to the
house where the body was lying. The inyōshi
pushed open the sliding-doors, and told his client
to enter. It was rapidly growing dark. "I dare
    </p>
    <p>
     not!" gasped the man, quaking from head to
foot;—"I dare not even look at her!" "You
will have to do much more than look at her,"
declared the inyōshi;—"and you promised to
obey. Go in!" He forced the trembler into
the house and led him to the side of the corpse.
    </p>
    <p>
     The dead woman was lying on her face.
"Now you must get astride upon her," said the
inyōshi, "and sit firmly on her back, as if you
were riding a horse.... Come!—you must do
it!" The man shivered so that the inyōshi had
to support him—shivered horribly; but he
obeyed. "Now take her hair in your hands,"
commanded the inyōshi,—"half in the right
hand, half in the left.... So!... You must
grip it like a bridle. Twist your hands in it—both
hands—tightly. That is the way!...
Listen to me! You must stay like that till morning.
You will have reason to be afraid in the
night—plenty of reason. But whatever may
happen, never let go of her hair. If you let go,—even
for one second,—she will tear you into
gobbets!"
    </p>
    <p>
     The inyōshi then whispered some mysterious
words into the ear of the body, and said to its
    </p>
    <p>
     rider:—"Now, for my own sake, I must leave
you alone with her.... Remain as you are!... Above
all things, remember that you must
not let go of her hair." And he went away,—closing
the doors behind him.
    </p>
    <p>
     Hour after hour the man sat upon the corpse in
black fear;—and the hush of the night deepened
and deepened about him till he screamed to break
it. Instantly the body sprang beneath him, as to
cast him off; and the dead woman cried out
loudly, "Oh, how heavy it is! Yet I shall bring
that fellow here now!"
    </p>
    <p>
     Then tall she rose, and leaped to the doors,
and flung them open, and rushed into the night,—always
bearing the weight of the man. But
he, shutting his eyes, kept his hands twisted
in her long hair,—tightly, tightly,—though
fearing with such a fear that he could not even
moan. How far she went, he never knew.
He saw nothing: he heard only the sound of
her naked feet in the dark,—picha-picha,
picha-picha,—and the hiss of her breathing as
she ran.
    </p>
    <p>
     At last she turned, and ran back into the
house, and lay down upon the floor exactly as
    </p>
    <p>
     at first. Under the man she panted and moaned
till the cocks began to crow. Thereafter she lay
still.
    </p>
    <p>
     But the man, with chattering teeth, sat upon
her until the inyōshi came at sunrise. "So you
did not let go of her hair!"—observed the inyōshi,
greatly pleased. "That is well ... Now
you can stand up." He whispered again into the
ear of the corpse, and then said to the man:—"You
must have passed a fearful night; but
nothing else could have saved you. Hereafter
you may feel secure from her vengeance."
    </p>
    <p>
     The conclusion of this story I do not think to
be morally satisfying. It is not recorded that the
corpse-rider became insane, or that his hair turned
white: we are told only that "he worshipped the
inyōshi with tears of gratitude." A note appended
to the recital is equally disappointing.
"It is reported," the Japanese author says,
"that a grandchild of the man [who rode the
corpse] still survives, and that a grandson of
the inyōshi is at this very time living in a village
    </p>
    <p>
     called Otokunoi-mura [probably pronounced
Otonoi-mura]."
    </p>
    <p>
     This village-name does not appear in any Japanese
directory of to-day. But the names of
many towns and villages have been changed
since the foregoing story was written.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Sympathy of Benten
     </head>
     [13]
    </div>
    <p>
     [13]
 The original story is in the Otogi-Hyaku-Monogatari
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Sympathy of Benten
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     IN Kyōto there is a famous temple called Amadera.
Sadazumi Shinnō, the fifth son of
the Emperor Seiwa, passed the greater part
of his life there as a priest; and the graves of
many celebrated persons are to be seen in the
temple-grounds.
    </p>
    <p>
     But the present edifice is not the ancient Amadera.
The original temple, after the lapse of ten
centuries, fell into such decay that it had to be
entirely rebuilt in the fourteenth year of Genroku
(1701 a. d.).
    </p>
    <p>
     A great festival was held to celebrate the rebuilding
of the Amadera; and among the thousands
of persons who attended that festival there
was a young scholar and poet named Hanagaki
Baishū. He wandered about the newly-laid-out
grounds and gardens, delighted by all that he saw,
until he reached the place of a spring at which he
    </p>
    <p>
     had often drunk in former times. He was then
surprised to find that the soil about the spring
had been dug away, so as to form a square pond,
and that at one corner of this pond there had
been set up a wooden tablet bearing the words
Tanjō-Sui ("Birth-Water").[14] He also saw
that a small, but very handsome temple of the
Goddess Benten had been erected beside the
pond. While he was looking at this new temple,
a sudden gust of wind blew to his feet a tanzaku,[15]
on which the following poem had been
written:—
    </p>
    <p>
     Shirushi aréto
Iwai zo somuru
Tama hōki,
Toruté bakari no
Chigiri narétomo.
    </p>
    <p>
     [14]
 The word tanjō (birth) should here be understood in
its mystical Buddhist meaning of new life or rebirth, rather
than in the western signification of birth.
    </p>
    <p>
     [15]
 Tanzaku is the name given to the long strips or ribbons
of paper, usually colored, upon which poems are
written perpendicularly. Poems written upon tanzaku are
suspended to trees in flower, to wind-bells, to any beautiful
object in which the poet has found an inspiration.
    </p>
    <p>
     This poem—a poem on first love (hatsu koi),
composed by the famous Shunrei Kyō—was not
    </p>
    <p>
     unfamiliar to him; but it had been written
upon the tanzaku by a female hand, and so
exquisitely that he could scarcely believe his
eyes. Something in the form of the characters,—an
indefinite grace,—suggested that period
of youth between childhood and womanhood;
and the pure rich color of the ink seemed to
bespeak the purity and goodness of the writer's
heart.[16]
    </p>
    <p>
     [16]
 It is difficult for the inexperienced European eye to
distinguish in Chinese or Japanese writing those characteristics
implied by our term "hand"—in the sense of individual
style. But the Japanese scholar never forgets the
peculiarities of a handwriting once seen; and he can even
guess at the approximate age of the writer. Chinese and
Japanese authors claim that the color (quality) of the ink
used tells something of the character of the writer. As
every person grounds or prepares his or her own ink, the
deeper and clearer black would at least indicate something
of personal carefulness and of the sense of beauty.
    </p>
    <p>
     Baishū carefully folded up the tanzaku, and
took it home with him. When he looked at it
again the writing appeared to him even more
wonderful than at first. His knowledge in caligraphy
assured him only that the poem had been
written by some girl who was very young, very
intelligent, and probably very gentle-hearted.
    </p>
    <p>
     But this assurance sufficed to shape within his
mind the image of a very charming person; and
he soon found himself in love with the unknown.
Then his first resolve was to seek out the writer
of the verses, and, if possible, make her his wife....
Yet how was he to find her? Who was
she? Where did she live? Certainly he could
hope to find her only through the favor of the
Gods.
    </p>
    <p>
     But presently it occurred to him that the
Gods might be very willing to lend their aid.
The tanzaku had come to him while he was
standing in front of the temple of Benten-Sama;
and it was to this divinity in particular that lovers
were wont to pray for happy union. This reflection
impelled him to beseech the Goddess for
assistance. He went at once to the temple of
Benten-of-the-Birth-Water (Tanjō-sui-no-Benten)
in the grounds of the Amadera; and there,
with all the fervor of his heart, he made his
petition:—"O Goddess, pity me!—help me
to find where the young person lives who wrote
the tanzaku!—vouchsafe me but one chance to
meet her,—even if only for a moment!" And
after having made this prayer, he began to perform
a seven days' religious service (nanuka-mairi)[17]
    </p>
    <p>
     in honor of the Goddess; vowing at
the same time to pass the seventh night in ceaseless
worship before her shrine.
    </p>
    <p>
     [17]
 There are many kinds of religious exercises called
mairi. The performer of a nanuka-mairi pledges himself
to pray at a certain temple every day for seven days in
succession.
    </p>
    <p>
     Now on the seventh night,—the night of his
vigil,—during the hour when the silence is most
deep, he heard at the main gateway of the temple-grounds
a voice calling for admittance. Another
voice from within answered; the gate was opened;
and Baishū saw an old man of majestic appearance
approaching with slow steps. This venerable
person was clad in robes of ceremony; and
he wore upon his snow-white head a black cap
(eboshi) of the form indicating high rank.
Reaching the little temple of Benten, he knelt
down in front of it, as if respectfully awaiting
some order. Then the outer door of the temple
was opened; the hanging curtain of bamboo
behind it, concealing the inner sanctuary, was
rolled half-way up; and a chigo[18] came forward,—a
    </p>
    <p>
     beautiful boy, with long hair tied back in
the ancient manner. He stood at the threshold,
and said to the old man in a clear loud voice:—
    </p>
    <p>
     [18]
 The term chigo usually means the page of a noble
household, especially an Imperial page. The chigo who
appears in this story is of course a supernatural being,—the
court-messenger of the Goddess, and her mouthpiece.
    </p>
    <p>
     "There is a person here who has been praying
for a love-union not suitable to his present condition,
and otherwise difficult to bring about.
But as the young man is worthy of Our pity, you
have been called to see whether something can
be done for him. If there should prove to be
any relation between the parties from the period
of a former birth, you will introduce them to
each other."
    </p>
    <p>
     On receiving this command, the old man
bowed respectfully to the chigo: then, rising, he
drew from the pocket of his long left sleeve a
crimson cord. One end of this cord he passed
round Baishū's body, as if to bind him with it.
The other end he put into the flame of one of
the temple-lamps; and while the cord was there
burning, he waved his hand three times, as if to
summon somebody out of the dark.
    </p>
    <p>
     Immediately, in the direction of the Amadera, a
sound of coming steps was heard; and in another
    </p>
    <p>
     moment a girl appeared,—a charming girl, fifteen
or sixteen years old. She approached gracefully,
but very shyly,—hiding the lower part of
her face with a fan; and she knelt down beside
Baishū. The chigo then said to Baishū:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "Recently you have been suffering much
heart-pain; and this desperate love of yours
has even impaired your health. We could not
allow you to remain in so unhappy a condition;
and We therefore summoned the Old-Man-under-the-Moon[19]
to make you acquainted
with the writer of that tanzaku. She is now
beside you."
    </p>
    <p>
     [19]
 Gekkawō. This is a poetical appellation for the
God of Marriage, more usually known as Musubi-no-kami.
Throughout this story there is an interesting mingling of
Shintō and Buddhist ideas.
    </p>
    <p>
     With these words, the chigo retired behind the
bamboo curtain. Then the old man went away
as he had come; and the young girl followed
him. Simultaneously Baishū heard the great bell
of the Amadera sounding the hour of dawn. He
prostrated himself in thanksgiving before the
shrine of Benten-of-the-Birth-Water, and proceeded
homeward,—feeling as if awakened from
some delightful dream,—happy at having seen
    </p>
    <p>
     the charming person whom he had so fervently
prayed to meet,—unhappy also because of the
fear that he might never meet her again.
    </p>
    <p>
     But scarcely had he passed from the gateway
into the street, when he saw a young girl walking
alone in the same direction that he was going;
and, even in the dusk of the dawn, he recognized
her at once as the person to whom he had been
introduced before the temple of Benten. As he
quickened his pace to overtake her, she turned
and saluted him with a graceful bow. Then for
the first time he ventured to speak to her; and
she answered him in a voice of which the sweetness
filled his heart with joy. Through the yet
silent streets they walked on, chatting happily,
till they found themselves before the house
where Baishū lived. There he paused—spoke
to the girl of his hopes and fears. Smiling, she
asked:—"Do you not know that I was sent for
to become your wife?" And she entered with
him.
    </p>
    <p>
     Becoming his wife, she delighted him beyond
expectation by the charm of her mind and heart.
Moreover, he found her to be much more accomplished
than he had supposed. Besides being
    </p>
    <p>
     able to write so wonderfully, she could paint
beautiful pictures; she knew the art of arranging
flowers, the art of embroidery, the art of
music; she could weave and sew; and she knew
everything in regard to the management of
a house.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was in the early autumn that the young
people had met; and they lived together in
perfect accord until the winter season began.
Nothing, during those months, occurred to disturb
their peace. Baishū's love for his gentle
wife only strengthened with the passing of time.
Yet, strangely enough, he remained ignorant of
her history,—knew nothing about her family.
Of such matters she had never spoken; and,
as the Gods had given her to him, he imagined
that it would not be proper to question her. But
neither the Old-Man-under-the-Moon nor any
one else came—as he had feared—to take her
away. Nobody even made any inquiries about
her. And the neighbors, for some undiscoverable
reason, acted as if totally unaware of her
presence.
    </p>
    <p>
     Baishū wondered at all this. But stranger
experiences were awaiting him.
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     One winter morning he happened to be passing
through a somewhat remote quarter of the
city, when he heard himself loudly called by
name, and saw a man-servant making signs to
him from the gateway of a private residence.
As Baishū did not know the man's face, and did
not have a single acquaintance in that part of
Kyōto, he was more than startled by so abrupt a
summons. But the servant, coming forward,
saluted him with the utmost respect, and said,
"My master greatly desires the honor of speaking
with you: deign to enter for a moment." After
an instant of hesitation, Baishū allowed himself
to be conducted to the house. A dignified
and richly dressed person, who seemed to be
the master, welcomed him at the entrance, and
led him to the guest-room. When the courtesies
due upon a first meeting had been fully
exchanged, the host apologized for the informal
manner of his invitation, and said:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "It must have seemed to you very rude of us
to call you in such a way. But perhaps you will
pardon our impoliteness when I tell you that we
acted thus upon what I firmly believe to have
been an inspiration from the Goddess Benten.
Now permit me to explain.
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     "I have a daughter, about sixteen years old,
who can write rather well,[20] and do other things
in the common way: she has the ordinary nature
of woman. As we were anxious to make her
happy by finding a good husband for her, we
prayed the Goddess Benten to help us; and we
sent to every temple of Benten in the city a
tanzaku written by the girl. Some nights later,
the Goddess appeared to me in a dream, and
said: 'We have heard your prayer, and have
already introduced your daughter to the person
who is to become her husband. During the
coming winter he will visit you.' As I did not
understand this assurance that a presentation had
been made, I felt some doubt; I thought that
the dream might have been only a common
dream, signifying nothing. But last night again
I saw Benten-Sama in a dream; and she said to
me: 'To-morrow the young man, of whom I
    </p>
    <p>
     once spoke to you, will come to this street: then
you can call him into your house, and ask him
to become the husband of your daughter. He
is a good young man; and later in life he will
obtain a much higher rank than he now holds.'
Then Benten-Sama told me your name, your
age, your birthplace, and described your features
and dress so exactly that my servant found no
difficulty in recognizing you by the indications
which I was able to give him."
    </p>
    <p>
     [20]
 As it is the old Japanese rule that parents should
speak depreciatingly of their children's accomplishments
the phrase "rather well" in this connection would mean,
for the visitor, "wonderfully well." For the same reason
the expressions "common way" and "ordinary nature,"
as subsequently used, would imply almost the reverse of
the literal meaning.
    </p>
    <p>
     This explanation bewildered Baishū instead of
reassuring him; and his only reply was a formal
return of thanks for the honor which the master
of the house had spoken of doing him. But
when the host invited him to another room, for
the purpose of presenting him to the young
lady, his embarrassment became extreme. Yet
he could not reasonably decline the introduction.
He could not bring himself, under such
extraordinary circumstances, to announce that he
already had a wife,—a wife given to him by
the Goddess Benten herself; a wife from whom
he could not even think of separating. So, in
silence and trepidation, he followed his host to
the apartment indicated.
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     Then what was his amazement to discover,
when presented to the daughter of the house,
that she was the very same person whom he
had already taken to wife!
    </p>
    <p>
     The same,—yet not the same.
    </p>
    <p>
     She to whom he had been introduced by the
Old-Man-under-the-Moon, was only the soul of
the beloved.
    </p>
    <p>
     She to whom he was now to be wedded, in
her father's house, was the body.
    </p>
    <p>
     Benten had wrought this miracle for the sake
of her worshippers.
    </p>
    <p>
     The original story breaks off suddenly at this
point, leaving several matters unexplained. The
ending is rather unsatisfactory. One would like
to know something about the mental experiences
of the real maiden during the married life
of her phantom. One would also like to know
what became of the phantom,—whether it
continued to lead an independent existence;
whether it waited patiently for the return of
its husband; whether it paid a visit to the real
bride. And the book says nothing about these
    </p>
    <p>
     things. But a Japanese friend explains the
miracle thus:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "The spirit-bride was really formed out of the
tanzaku. So it is possible that the real girl did
not know anything about the meeting at the
temple of Benten. When she wrote those beautiful
characters upon the tanzaku, something of
her spirit passed into them. Therefore it was
possible to evoke from the writing the double
of the writer."
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Gratitude of the Samébito
     </head>
     [21]
    </div>
    <p>
     [21]
 The original of this story may be found in the book called
Kibun-Anbaiyoshi
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Gratitude of the Samébito
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     THERE was a man named Tawaraya Tōtarō,
who lived in the Province of Ōmi. His
house was situated on the shore of Lake
Biwa, not far from the famous temple called
Ishiyamadera. He had some property, and
lived in comfort; but at the age of twenty-nine
he was still unmarried. His greatest ambition
was to marry a very beautiful woman; and he
had not been able to find a girl to his liking.
    </p>
    <p>
     One day, as he was passing over the Long Bridge
of Séta,[22]
he saw a strange being crouching close
to the parapet. The body of this being resembled
    </p>
    <p>
     the body of a man, but was black as ink; its
face was like the face of a demon; its eyes were
green as emeralds; and its beard was like the
beard of a dragon. Tōtarō was at first very
much startled. But the green eyes looked at
him so gently that after a moment's hesitation
he ventured to question the creature. Then it
answered him, saying: "I am a Samébito,[23]—a
Shark-Man of the sea; and until a short time
ago I was in the service of the Eight Great
Dragon-Kings [Hachi-Dai-Ryū-Ō] as a subordinate
officer in the Dragon-Palace [Ryūgū].[24]
But because of a small fault which I committed,
I was dismissed from the Dragon-Palace, and
also banished from the Sea. Since then I have
been wandering about here,—unable to get any
food, or even a place to lie down. If you can
    </p>
    <p>
     feel any pity for me, do, I beseech you, help me
to find a shelter, and let me have something to
eat!"
    </p>
    <p>
     [22]
 The Long Bridge of Séta (Séta-no-Naga-Hashi), famous
in Japanese legend, is nearly eight hundred feet in length, and
commands a beautiful view. This bridge crosses the waters
of the Sétagawa near the junction of the stream with Lake
Biwa. Ishiyamadera, one of the most picturesque Buddhist
temples in Japan, is situated within a short distance from
the bridge.
    </p>
    <p>
     [23]
 Literally, "a Shark-Person," but in this story the
Samébito is a male. The characters for Samébito can also be
read Kōjin,—which is the usual reading. In dictionaries
the word is loosely rendered by "merman" or "mermaid;"
but as the above description shows, the Samébito
or Kōjin of the Far East is a conception having little in
common with the Western idea of a merman or mermaid.
    </p>
    <p>
     [24]
 Ryūgū is also the name given to the whole of that
fairy-realm beneath the sea which figures in so many
Japanese legends.
    </p>
    <p>
     This petition was uttered in so plaintive a
tone, and in so humble a manner, that Tōtarō's
heart was touched. "Come with me," he said.
"There is in my garden a large and deep pond
where you may live as long as you wish; and I
will give you plenty to eat."
    </p>
    <p>
     The Samébito followed Tōtarō home, and appeared
to be much pleased with the pond.
    </p>
    <p>
     Thereafter, for nearly half a year, this strange
guest dwelt in the pond, and was every day supplied
by Tōtarō with such food as sea-creatures
like.
    </p>
    <p>
     [From this point of the original narrative the Shark-Man is
referred to, not as a monster, but as a sympathetic Person of
the male sex.]
    </p>
    <p>
     Now, in the seventh month of the same year,
there was a female pilgrimage (nyonin-mōdé) to
the great Buddhist temple called Miidera, in the
neighboring town of Ōtsu; and Tōtarō went to
Ōtsu to attend the festival. Among the multitude
of women and young girls there assembled,
he observed a person of extraordinary beauty.
She seemed about sixteen years old; her face was
    </p>
    <p>
     fair and pure as snow; and the loveliness of her
lips assured the beholder that their every utterance
would sound "as sweet as the voice of a
nightingale singing upon a plum-tree." Tōtarō
fell in love with her at sight. When she left the
temple he followed her at a respectful distance,
and discovered that she and her mother were
staying for a few days at a certain house in the
neighboring village of Séta. By questioning
some of the village folk, he was able also to
learn that her name was Tamana; that she was
unmarried; and that her family appeared to be
unwilling that she should marry a man of ordinary
rank,—for they demanded as a betrothal-gift
a casket containing ten thousand jewels.[25]
    </p>
    <p>
     [25]
 Tama in the original. This word tama has a multitude
of meanings; and as here used it is quite as indefinite as our
own terms "jewel," "gem," or "precious stone." Indeed,
it is more indefinite, for it signifies also a bead of coral, a
ball of crystal, a polished stone attached to a hairpin, etc.,
etc. Later on, however, I venture to render it by "ruby,"—for
reasons which need no explanation.
    </p>
    <p>
     Tōtarō returned home very much dismayed by
this information. The more that he thought about
the strange betrothal-gift demanded by the girl's
parents, the more he felt that he could never
    </p>
    <p>
     expect to obtain her for his wife. Even supposing
that there were as many as ten thousand
jewels in the whole country, only a great prince
could hope to procure them.
    </p>
    <p>
     But not even for a single hour could Tōtarō
banish from his mind the memory of that beautiful
being. It haunted him so that he could
neither eat nor sleep; and it seemed to become
more and more vivid as the days went by. And
at last he became ill,—so ill that he could not
lift his head from the pillow. Then he sent for
a doctor.
    </p>
    <p>
     The doctor, after having made a careful examination,
uttered an exclamation of surprise. "Almost
any kind of sickness," he said, "can be
cured by proper medical treatment, except the
sickness of love. Your ailment is evidently love-sickness.
There is no cure for it. In ancient
times Rōya-Ō Hakuyo died of that sickness; and
you must prepare yourself to die as he died."
So saying, the doctor went away, without even
giving any medicine to Tōtarō.
    </p>
    <p>
     About this time the Shark-Man that was living
in the garden-pond heard of his master's sickness,
and came into the house to wait upon Tōtarō.
    </p>
    <p>
     And he tended him with the utmost affection
both by day and by night. But he did not know
either the cause or the serious nature of the sickness
until nearly a week later, when Tōtarō,
thinking himself about to die, uttered these words
of farewell:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "I suppose that I have had the pleasure of
caring for you thus long, because of some relation
that grew up between us in a former state of
existence. But now I am very sick indeed, and
every day my sickness becomes worse; and my
life is like the morning dew which passes away
before the setting of the sun. For your sake,
therefore, I am troubled in mind. Your existence
has depended upon my care; and I fear that
there will be no one to care for you and to feed
you when I am dead.... My poor friend!...
Alas! our hopes and our wishes are always disappointed
in this unhappy world!"
    </p>
    <p>
     No sooner had Tōtarō spoken these words
than the Samébito uttered a strange wild cry of
pain, and began to weep bitterly. And as he
wept, great tears of blood streamed from his
green eyes and rolled down his black cheeks and
dripped upon the floor. And, falling, they were
blood; but, having fallen, they became hard and
    </p>
    <p>
     bright and beautiful,—became jewels of inestimable
price, rubies splendid as crimson fire. For
when men of the sea weep, their tears become
precious stones.
    </p>
    <p>
     Then Tōtarō, beholding this marvel, was so
amazed and overjoyed that his strength returned
to him. He sprang from his bed, and began to
pick up and to count the tears of the Shark-Man,
crying out the while: "My sickness is cured!
I shall live! I shall live!"
    </p>
    <p>
     Therewith, the Shark-Man, greatly astonished,
ceased to weep, and asked Tōtarō to explain this
wonderful cure; and Tōtarō told him about the
young person seen at Miidera, and about the
extraordinary marriage-gift demanded by her
family. "As I felt sure," added Tōtarō, "that
I should never be able to get ten thousand jewels,
I supposed that my suit would be hopeless.
Then I became very unhappy, and at last fell
sick. But now, because of your generous weeping,
I have many precious stones; and I think
that I shall be able to marry that girl. Only—there
are not yet quite enough stones; and I
beg that you will be good enough to weep a
little more, so as to make up the full number
required."
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     But at this request the Samébito shook his
head, and answered in a tone of surprise and of
reproach:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "Do you think that I am like a harlot,—able
to weep whenever I wish? Oh, no! Harlots shed
tears in order to deceive men; but creatures of the
sea cannot weep without feeling real sorrow. I
wept for you because of the true grief that I felt
in my heart at the thought that you were going
to die. But now I cannot weep for you, because
you have told me that your sickness is cured."
    </p>
    <p>
     "Then what am I to do?" plaintively asked
Tōtarō. "Unless I can get ten thousand jewels,
I cannot marry the girl!"
    </p>
    <p>
     The Samébito remained for a little while silent,
as if thinking. Then he said:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "Listen! To-day I cannot possibly weep any
more. But to-morrow let us go together to the
Long Bridge of Séta, taking with us some
wine and some fish. We can rest for a time on
the bridge; and while we are drinking the wine
and eating the fish, I shall gaze in the direction
of the Dragon-Palace, and try, by thinking of
the happy days that I spent there, to make myself
feel homesick—so that I can weep."
    </p>
    <p>
     Tōtarō joyfully assented.
    </p>
    <p>
    </p>
    <p>
     Next morning the two, taking plenty of wine
and fish with them, went to the Séta bridge, and
rested there, and feasted. After having drunk a
great deal of wine, the Samébito began to gaze
in the direction of the Dragon-Kingdom, and to
think about the past. And gradually, under the
softening influence of the wine, the memory of
happier days filled his heart with sorrow, and the
pain of homesickness came upon him, so that he
could weep profusely. And the great red tears
that he shed fell upon the bridge in a shower of
rubies; and Tōtarō gathered them as they fell,
and put them into a casket, and counted them
until he had counted the full number of ten
thousand. Then he uttered a shout of joy.
    </p>
    <p>
     Almost in the same moment, from far away
over the lake, a delightful sound of music was
heard; and there appeared in the offing, slowly
rising from the waters, like some fabric of cloud,
a palace of the color of the setting sun.
    </p>
    <p>
     At once the Samébito sprang upon the parapet
of the bridge, and looked, and laughed for joy.
Then, turning to Tōtarō, he said:—
    </p>
    <p>
     "There must have been a general amnesty
proclaimed in the Dragon-Realm; the Kings are
calling me. So now I must bid you farewell.
    </p>
    <p>
     I am happy to have had one chance of befriending
you in return for your goodness to me."
    </p>
    <p>
     With these words he leaped from the bridge;
and no man ever saw him again. But Tōtarō
presented the casket of red jewels to the parents
of Tamana, and so obtained her in marriage.
    </p>
   </p>
  </p>
 </body>
</TEI>
