<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<TEI>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>
     The Edogawa Rampo Reader
    </title>
    <author>
     Edogawa Rampo
    </author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <date>
     2008-12-22T23:00:00+00:00
    </date>
   </publicationStmt>
  </fileDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <body>
  <p>
   <p>
    Tyler, William, ed. Modanizumu: Modernist Fiction from Japan, 1913–1938. Honolulu: U. of Hawaii Press, 2008.
   </p>
   <p>
    The Stories
   </p>
   <p/>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Daydream
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Hakuchūmu · 1926
    </p>
    <p>
     Was it a nightmare of a daydream, or did it actually happen?
    </p>
    <p>
     It was a sultry afternoon and an eerily warm late spring breeze wafted against my flushed cheeks.
    </p>
    <p>
     I have only a vague recollection whether I was passing through on an errand or had just gone out for a stroll, but I found myself on the outskirts of a certain part of town, walking down a wide and dusty boulevard that stretched on straight ahead as far as the eye could see.
    </p>
    <p>
     Rundown merchant houses the color of a worn, faded shift silently formed a row of eaves. An elementary school student’s gym shirt stained with lines of grime was hanging in a narrow show window. Another shop front was crowded with stacks of thin wooden boxes partitioned like go boards and filled with red, yellow, white and brown seeds, as countless as grains of sand. In a cramped, dimly lit house, bicycle frames and tires were piled up to the ceiling. Sandwiched in the middle of this desolate scene was a two-story dwelling with the dingy glow of a votive lamp trickling out through its thin lattice gate, looking as though it might cry out, “Oh! Don’t press in on me from both sides like that!” The lewd strumming sounds of a samisen could also be heard coming from the house.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Appuku, chikiriki, appappa... appappa...”
    </p>
    <p>
     A group of girls whose braided hair was caked with dust had formed a circle in the middle of the road and were singing. “Appappa-ah-ah-ah...” The excruciating melody lazily evaporated into the hazy spring sky.
    </p>
    <p>
     Several boys were jumping rope. The low point of the long rope forcefully slapped against the ground only to snap right back into the air. One boy, whose homespun kimono was open at the chest, was nimbly hopping to and fro. The scene appeared to move in slow motion, as though it had been filmed at high speed for a movie.
    </p>
    <p>
     Every so often a heavily laden horse carriage would rumble past, making the street and houses shake.
    </p>
    <p>
     Coming to with a jolt, I realized something was going on just ahead. Fourteen or fifteen adults and children had formed a broken circle at the side of the road. Their faces were lit with a particular kind of smile, the sort people adopt when watching a farcical comedy. One man was guffawing vigorously.
    </p>
    <p>
     Curiosity compelled me to draw nearer.
    </p>
    <p>
     As I moved in for a closer look, I noticed a serious face that stood out from the others. There was a man of ashen complexion who pursed his lips as he fervently expounded about something. His manner of speaking was too zealous for an ordinary festival hawker. Yet the response from the onlookers was hardly appropriate for the roadside sermon of a man of the cloth. What was going on here?
    </p>
    <p>
     Before I knew it, I had joined the crowd in the semicircle to hear what he had to say.
    </p>
    <p>
     The speaker cut a distinguished figure in a faded blue serge kimono with a securely tied yellow obi. At first glance, he appeared to be a well-educated man in his forties. His pale, bulbous face was framed by a head of hair that glistened like a wig. His features were rounded out by a pair of beady eyes, a fine mustache and rouge-red lips that spit discourteously as they flapped together. Sweat dripped from his long nose, while bare feet encrusted with sand and dirt poked out from beneath the hem of his kimono.
    </p>
    <p>
     “How much did I love my wife, you ask?”
    </p>
    <p>
     His sermon appeared to be building to a climax. His words charged with unconstrained emotion, the man searched the faces of the onlookers for some time before finally answering his own question.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I loved her enough to kill her!”
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s too bad she had a wandering heart,” a heckler suddenly called out from amongst the onlookers. “Yeah, you never know when she might go and shack up with another man,” added another, his words dangerously fanning the flames.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, she must’ve done her fair share of that by now!”
    </p>
    <p>
     This was greeted with a hearty round of laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I fussed and fretted,” the man said, screwing up his neck in the manner of a kabuki actor. “It took its toll on my business. Every night I would plead in bed with my wife. I would put my hands together and beg.” There was a snicker. “Promise me you won’t do it. Promise you won’t give your heart to another man... But she wouldn’t listen to a word I said. She skillfully seduced me like a pro. The way she had me wrapped around her little finger, she made a fool of me every time. But if you could only imagine how enthralled I was by her charms.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Whoah-ho, so you had a good time, too!” someone interjected. There were more peals of laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ladies and gentleman,” the man persisted, ignoring the catcalls. “What would you have done in my situation? Could you have stopped short of murder? She looked exquisite with her hair done up – she could arrange it so beautifully all by herself... There she was, sitting in front of her dressing table. She had just finished putting up her hair. Accentuated with makeup, her lovely face turned towards me and her red lips parted in a smile.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The man raised one shoulder and struck a mie pose.1 His thick eyebrows came together and his expression changed to one of fearsome intensity. His own red lips twisted grotesquely.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I knew the time had come. Now was my chance to possess this radiant vision for eternity.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I took the awl I had prepared in advance and drove it with all my strength into her luxuriant hairline. A row of clenched teeth flashed through her lips before that smile vanished... and then she was dead.”
    </p>
    <p>
     A boisterous marching band for an advertising campaign paraded by. Large bugles blared wildly. “Here we are in far-off Manchuria, hundreds of miles from our beloved country.” As the band trailed off, the children sang along to the chorus.
    </p>
    <p>
     “My friends, they are spreading the word about me. Magara Tarō is a murderer, that’s what they are saying.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Laughter ensued. Only the marching band’s drums were still audible, and they resounded each time as if accompanying the man’s speech.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I cut apart my wife’s corpse into five parts. You understand my meaning – the trunk was one piece, plus two arms and two legs makes five. It was a pity, but I had no other choice. Ah, those plump, snow-white legs...” He suddenly lowered his voice. “Say, didn’t the rest of you hear the sound of water running?” Thrusting out his neck and restlessly casting his eyes about, the man looked as though he had made a momentous confession. “The water faucet in my house flowed non-stop for the entire twenty-one days of mourning. I put the five severed parts of my wife’s corpse into a wooden barrel and kept them chilled. Now gather round, ladies and gentleman.”
    </p>
    <p>
     At this point the man spoke so softly we could scarcely hear him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s a secret technique, you see. It keeps the corpse from rotting – by turning it into a wax mummy.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “A wax mummy...” The headword “MUMMY, WAXEN” from a medical book, accompanied by the author’s artistic rendition of a saponified specimen, hovered before my eyes. What on earth was this man suggesting? An irrepressible fright made my heart skip a beat.
    </p>
    <p>
     “My wife’s voluptuous white torso, her arms and legs, became a lovely wax doll.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ha-ha-ha, there you go again. How many times are you gonna repeat that nonsense we heard you talking yesterday?” someone rudely bellowed.
    </p>
    <p>
     “My friends, listen!” the man’s whisper suddenly changed to a loud cry. “Can’t you grasp what I’m saying? You’ve convinced yourselves that my wife has merely run away from home. But listen carefully: I’m the one who killed her. How do you like that – aren’t you shocked? Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! ”
    </p>
    <p>
     His hideous cackling went on so long that I started to wonder if it would ever stop. But eventually the man’s face returned to its original serious expression. Once again he spoke in hushed tones.
    </p>
    <p>
     “And now she has truly become mine. There’s no need for anxiety anymore. I can kiss and embrace her whenever I want. I’ve achieved my greatest desire. Still I have to be cautious. After all, I’m a murderer. You never know when the cops might stumble upon the body. But I came up with a brilliant solution for that. My hiding place is somewhere no flatfooted cop is going to think of. You there, come and take a look. Her corpse is right here decorating my shop.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The man fixed his gaze on me. I gasped and stumbled backwards. Until that very moment I had not noticed it, but practically right under my nose was a white canvas sunshade that read “DRUGS” and “MEDICINAL REMEDIES” in familiar simple lettering. In plain view under glass was a model of the human body. The name of the store was Something-or-Other Drugs. The man was the owner of a pharmacy.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, here she is. Take a good look at my lovely lady.”
    </p>
    <p>
     What compelled me to do it? The next thing I knew I had ducked under the canvas sunshade.
    </p>
    <p>
     In a glass box in front of me was a woman’s head. She was smiling with a row of gritted teeth bared through her lips. I could make out the putrefying skin of a real human being on the loathsome, swollen, waxen head. The tiny, downy hairs on the face were further proof that this was no fake.
    </p>
    <p>
     My heart leapt into my throat. Just barely managing to keep myself from fainting, I escaped from under the sunshade. Taking care not to let the man catch me, I fled past the throng of spectators.
    </p>
    <p>
     When I looked back over my shoulder, I saw a policeman standing behind the crowd. Like the others, he too was chuckling at the man’s performance.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What are you laughing at? How can you neglect your duties like this? Don’t you understand what that man is saying? If you think he’s joking, go check behind that canvas. There is a human corpse on display right smack in the middle of Tokyo!”
    </p>
    <p>
     I wanted to rap that unfeeling policeman on the shoulder and reprimand him, but I didn’t have the courage. Dizzily, I staggered away.
    </p>
    <p>
     The white boulevard stretched ahead with no end in sight. The hazy heat rippled like seaweed through the row of telephone poles that lined the street.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Martian Canals
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Kasei no unga · 1927
    </p>
    <p>
     I’m here again, I murmured to myself, as a chilling sensation set my flesh aquiver. An inky gloom blanketed my entire world. Sound and smell, even the sense of touch, dissipated from my body. I was left with nothing but a muted palette of stillness and decay enveloping me on all sides.
    </p>
    <p>
     Like rain clouds gathering overhead, the leaves of the trees formed an impenetrable black bower from which not even the slightest sound could escape. Rising up from massive burnt umber trunks, the foliage became waterfalls that cascaded to the ground. They extended outwards in every direction as far as the eye could see like troops marching in a parade, until at last they tapered off into the bottomless gloom.
    </p>
    <p>
     I had not the slightest idea what lay beyond the dense layers of darkness of that leafy canopy, whether a serene sun was shining down or an icy wind was blustering. The only thing I knew was that I was lost in the heavy shadows of an immense, unyielding forest, and that I had to keep walking, come what may. On and on I plodded, but I only encountered one towering tree trunk after another. The scenery did not change a bit. Fallen leaves, accumulated over hundreds of years since the birth of the forest, formed a sodden cushion underfoot, and made an unmistakable squishing sound with every step I took.
    </p>
    <p>
     In this shadowy world with no other sounds, I felt as though all other living things had ceased to exist. Yet, however improbable, I could not shake the thought that the whole forest was rife with malevolent nature spirits. I imagined mountain leeches the size of snakes tumbling down from the dusky treetops above like so many raindrops insinuating their way into my collar. Although not a single thing moved before my eyes, it seemed as though a swarm of indistinct creatures like jellyfish were milling behind my back and shrieking with laughter in a voiceless choir.
    </p>
    <p>
     It goes without saying that the darkness and the creatures that dwelt within it frightened me, but more than anything else it was the infinite forest, and the horror of its abyssal depths, which oppressed me. Like a newborn baby struck with awe at the vastness of space, I drew my limbs closer to my body and shivered with fear.
    </p>
    <p>
     Although I was on the brink of crying out, “Mother, I’m scared!” I bit my tongue and quickened my pace to escape from that melancholy world without another moment’s hesitation.
    </p>
    <p>
     Yet the further I plunged into the shadowy forest, the deeper the gloom became. How many years, perhaps decades, did I wander through that wood? Time ceased to exist. There was neither dusk nor dawn. Had I begun walking yesterday or a dozen years ago? Everything faded into uncertainty.
    </p>
    <p>
     I began to suspect that I would walk forever in that forest, winding around in a giant circle. The uncertainty of my own footsteps was more disconcerting than any creature in the outside world. I once heard a story about a traveler who, because of a difference of only one inch in the gait of his left and right legs, was condemned to trace endless circles in the desert. But in the desert, clouds give way to clear skies, the sun comes out by day, and stars twinkle at night. In contrast, you could wait for kingdom come in the rook-black darkness of the forest and no sign would ever appear to guide the way. At the mere thought of it, I was riveted by a fear like no other. From the core of my being there came a shudder that beggared description.
    </p>
    <p>
     Since birth I have tasted this fear more times than I can remember. The awe it inspires is sometimes accompanied by the ebb and flow of a nostalgia that might amplify it, but never makes it easier to bear. Although I only rarely come to the forest, I mysteriously find I have no memory of where I enter or when I leave. Each experience marks an altogether new horror that constricts my soul. Now, as always, the colossal shroud of death made an insignificant speck of humanity like me break into a sweat and gasp for air as I pressed forward.
    </p>
    <p>
     At length I noticed my surroundings had begun to shimmer with a strange, faint glow. If pressed for a comparison, I would say it resembled light projected from a magic lantern onto a screen: the sort of glow that belongs to another world. As I pressed on, the darkness receded behind me.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What’s going on? Could this be the way out of the forest?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Somehow I must have forgotten the path. I had become desperate, like a man who had been trapped in there for ages.
    </p>
    <p>
     I made for the light with a sense of resistance similar to wading through water. When I drew close enough, a break in the forest opened before me, accompanied by the reassuring sight of the sky. But was the color of that sky really like our own? To make matters worse, what did I see on the other side? There was no other side. Alas, I had not quite freed myself from the forest. What I thought was the edge of the wood was actually deep in its heart.
    </p>
    <p>
     There was a circular pond about a hundred yards in diameter. Scarcely enough land remained to encircle the pond before it reverted back to forest. The gloom hung thick as ever. The wood showed no signs of thinning any further than the path I had already taken.
    </p>
    <p>
     I had wandered through the forest many times before, but never had I learned of this pond’s existence. Consequently, when I plunged out of the forest and stood at its shore, I was stunned by its breathtaking scenery. It was like the unexpected discovery of phantasmal flowers that comes with the turn of a kaleidoscope. Yet the sky, forest and water before me were not the vivid colors you’d expect from a kaleidoscope. The sky was charcoal and the forest murky green and browns, with the water simply casting back these elementary colors. I could only speculate upon what produced the incredible beauty of the pond. Was it the ashen sky? Was it the creeping branches of the trees that even now looked as though giant spiders were about to leap down and seize their prey? Was it the bottomless depths of the pond, still as a stone, upon whose surface the surrounding scenery was reflected? It was all of these things. But there was something else. Something unfathomable.
    </p>
    <p>
     Was this a world without sounds and smells, or even the touch of things brushing against the skin? Or had the senses of sound, smell and touch melted into a single sense of sight? Undoubtedly this was also true. And yet there was something else. The sky, forest and pond were bursting with longing for someone or something. The gathered force of their desire was on the verge of being exhaled in a single breath. But even so, why did it stir my heart as well?
    </p>
    <p>
     Without conscious design I turned my eyes from the outside world to my own inexplicably naked body. When I saw mine was no longer the body of a man, but the ripe, rounded flesh of a girl, thoughts of being a man slipped from me and I smiled as if naught were amiss. Oh, this body of mine! A surge of happiness swept over me, and my heart leapt into my throat.
    </p>
    <p>
     Amazingly, my body had become the spitting image of my lover’s. It was beautiful beyond all comparison. I now possessed a glossy and bountiful mane of black hair like an Arabian mare, shapely limbs, and white skin like the shimmering belly of a snake. I wondered – how many men I had already conquered? How would they grovel before a queen such as I?
    </p>
    <p>
     In that instant everything became clear. At last I understood the mysterious beauty of the pond.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ah, how my loyal servants have waited for me. Have not my servants – the sky, forest, and waters – patiently borne untold millennia for this very moment? The wait is over! Now I shall fulfill your fervent desires.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The beauty of the scenery was not complete in and of itself. It only set the stage. And I appeared before them a splendid actor.
    </p>
    <p>
     How my snow-white skin was perfectly balanced with the rich depths of that gray world, the bottomless pond surrounded by the gloom-ridden forest! Oh, how it glistened! It was a grand drama, and mine was a peerless beauty.
    </p>
    <p>
     I took a step into the pond. In the heart of its black waters I spied a single rock of the same ebony hue rising up, and began to silently swim for it. The water was neither warm nor cold, but thick and viscous like oil, so that when I moved my arms and legs, only the area around them formed waves. However, there was no sound and I experienced no resistance. Two or three rows of waves gently rippled over my breast. Noiselessly I advanced, swimming like a pure white swan across its placid surface. When I reached the center of the pond, I crawled onto the gleaming black rock. I must have looked much the same as a mermaid dancing in the sea in the evening calm.
    </p>
    <p>
     I sprang to my feet atop the rock. There was such incredible beauty! Gazing up at the sky, I gave a cry like a burst of fireworks with all the strength in my lungs. The muscles in my chest and throat strained almost beyond their limits, then forcefully contracted back again.
    </p>
    <p>
     My body began to undulate in wild motions. How to describe the splendor of it? Like the twisting and turning of a snake rent in two. My muscles were so many inchworms, caterpillars, and earthworms caught in the throes of death. I was a beast wracked with boundless pleasure and pain.
    </p>
    <p>
     When I wearied of the dance, I plunged back into the black water to moisten my throat. I drank as much as I could bear of that viscous liquid, heavy as mercury.
    </p>
    <p>
     Amidst my revelries still I sensed something lacking. It was not only within me, for the surrounding scenery had lost none of its mysterious tension. It, too, lay waiting for something to happen.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Of course, what’s needed here is a dash of crimson,” I realized with a start. That was the missing ingredient from this fantastic picture. If I could provide a touch of color, the eye of the serpent would come alive. A splash of crimson alongside the shining white of my skin in that fathomless gray would truly bring to life the scintillating eye of the serpent.
    </p>
    <p>
     Yet where was I to find material to supply that color? Were I to look from one end of the forest to another I would not find so much as a camellia blossom. There was nothing but the cluster of trees that made up the spiders’ lair.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Wait a minute... Yes, of course, I know the perfect pigment after all. What ordinary paint shop sells a crimson as vivid as the one I can wrest from my heart?”
    </p>
    <p>
     With thin, sharp nails I single-mindedly tore gashes all over my body. My full breasts, supple abdomen, shapely shoulders and thighs – none were spared. A river of gore flowed from the open wounds, and my body was covered in glistening red tattoos. It was as though I had donned a shirt of dripping blood.
    </p>
    <p>
     This was cast back by the waters of the pond. Martian canals! My body had become just like the eerie canals on Mars. Instead of water, crimson gore flowed through them.
    </p>
    <p>
     Once more I began a frenzied dance, a spinning top of alternating red and white stripes. Whirling about, I again became a snake caught in its death throes. I bent backward, stretching my chest and legs behind me until my hips were at their breaking point, straining the taut muscles bulging from my thighs. I lay with my back against the rock. Bending my shoulders and legs together like a bow, I crawled about as an inchworm might. I spread my legs and placed my neck between them, rolling to and fro like a balled-up caterpillar. Then I returned to my mimicry of an earthworm cut in half and pranced up and down. No matter what part of my body it was – my arms and shoulders, stomach and hips – flexing and relaxing everywhere, I attempted to contort into every conceivable bodily shape. It was the performance of a lifetime, and I gave it my all.
    </p>
    <p>
     — ❈ —
    </p>
    <p>
     “My dear, my dear.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Someone was calling to me from far away. The voice gradually drew closer. My body trembled as though struck by an earthquake.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Darling, did you have a nightmare?”
    </p>
    <p>
     When I blearily opened my eyes, my lover’s face in profile loomed abnormally large right in front of my nose.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I had a dream.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh you poor thing, you’re soaked through with sweat. It must have been awful.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Yes, it was a terrible dream.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Like sunset over the mountains, her cheek was clearly divided into areas of light and darkness. The long, fine translucent hairs in the space between them were rimmed with gold. Brilliant beads of oil shone alongside her nostril, and the cavernous pores that exuded them breathed coquettishly. And then, with the immensity of a planet, her cheek slowly engulfed my field of vision.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Appearance of Osei
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Osei tōjō · 1927
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakutarō, who suffered from tuberculosis, had once again been abandoned by his wife and saw no choice but to listlessly await her return. Good-natured though he was, Kakutarō at first felt bitterly indignant about her affair and considered using it as grounds for divorce. Gradually, however, the weakness brought on by his illness induced a sense of futility. A moment’s reflection upon the brevity of his own life and consideration for the welfare of his beloved son was all it took to rule out any violent behavior. His younger brother Kakujirō, on the other hand, observed what was going on and held to a stricter view. Kakutarō’s weakness drove Kakujirō to exasperation, and occasionally he voiced his opinions on the subject.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Honestly, I can’t understand why you tolerate it. If I were you, I would have divorced her by now. What possible reason could you have to feel pity for a woman like that?”
    </p>
    <p>
     But for Kakutarō it was not merely a question of pity. Of course he knew that if he divorced Osei, she and the penniless student she had undoubtedly taken as her lover would immediately find themselves in dire straits. But while he was not without sympathy for Osei, he had other, much stronger, reasons. Naturally, he was concerned for the future of his son. Moreover, while it was too embarrassing to reveal to someone like his younger brother, Kakutarō could not bring himself to part with Osei, no matter how she badly she mistreated him. He was so worried that she would leave him forever that he could not bring himself to accuse her of adultery.
    </p>
    <p>
     For her part, Osei knew Kakutarō’s true feelings only too well. It might be a bit of a stretch to say, but something akin to an unspoken understanding had arisen between them. When she was not busy playing games with her secret lover, she did not neglect to devote her spare energy to Kakutarō. Though he was ashamed to admit it, Kakutarō was content with even the most threadbare display of her affection.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Things aren’t so straightforward as that,” Kakutarō would reply to his brother. “I have to think of my boy. I might hold out for another year or two, but my life is as good as over. It would be unforgivable for me to pass on and leave him without a mother. Well, I might as well endure it a little longer. You never know, the day may come when Osei has a change of heart.”
    </p>
    <p>
     By responding in this fashion, Kakutarō only succeeded in further exasperating his younger brother.
    </p>
    <p>
     But far from being persuaded to have a change of heart by Kakutarō’s sense of compassion, day after day Osei only slipped deeper into her adulterous love affair. Whenever she felt pressured, she used her bedridden father’s slow wasting illness as an excuse. It had not been three days since she last left the house, and now she claimed she was going to visit her father again. Needless to say, it would be easy enough to verify whether she had actually gone there, but Kakutarō did not even attempt to do that. He was gripped by a strange emotion. He had, as it were, adopted the posture of protecting Osei from himself.
    </p>
    <p>
     That morning, as usual, Osei carefully dressed and applied her makeup before hurrying from the house.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Is it really necessary to wear that much makeup just to see your father?”
    </p>
    <p>
     It took all of Kakutarō’s strength to refrain from letting sarcastic remarks like this fly from his mouth. Lately he had come to find a kind of pleasure in the self-pity that came from leaving unsaid what he most wanted to say.
    </p>
    <p>
     Since he had nothing to do when his wife was away, Kakutarō had begun to dabble in bonsai. He would step barefoot into the garden and achieve a small degree of comfort from the sensation of his feet buried in the dirt. For the sake of others beside him, it was necessary to affect a passion for this hobby. At noon the maid came out to tell him lunch was ready.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Excuse me, lunch is ready now... but perhaps you would prefer to eat later?”
    </p>
    <p>
     It was painful for Kakutarō to see even the maid had an unmistakable look of pity in her eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh, is it lunchtime already? Well then, why don’t we eat? It would be good of you to call the boy to the table.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakutarō put up a front of false courage and responded with as much good cheer as he could muster. No matter what he applied himself to these days, it had become a habit of his to pretend nothing was wrong.
    </p>
    <p>
     On days like this when the servants felt sorry for him, the table was laden with better dishes than usual. But over the past month, Kakutarō had not enjoyed a single meal. His son Shōichi had also been touched by the pall cast over the house, and as soon as he came home this otherwise boisterous child was burdened by his father’s dismal spirits.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Where’s mama?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Although he knew he would receive the customary reply, Shōichi could not rest at ease until he asked this question.
    </p>
    <p>
     “She’s gone to see your grandfather.”
    </p>
    <p>
     When he heard the maid’s answer, a sneer quite unbecoming in a seven-year-old child appeared on Shōichi’s face. With a derisive snort, he began to shovel down his food. Though still a child, he nevertheless refrained from asking any further questions in the presence of his father. In his own way, he had his own front to maintain.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Papa, is it all right if I invite over my friends?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Shōichi finished eating and cast a beseeching look at his father. Kakutarō sensed in it an innocent child’s heartfelt desire to please and could not help being moved to tears. At the same time, he felt a twinge of displeasure with himself. But the reply which came from him was yet another display of the usual false bravado.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Sure, why don’t you ask them. But play quietly, okay?”
    </p>
    <p>
     It might also have been the false exuberance of a child, but when Shōichi received his father’s permission, he cried, “Hurray!” and a look of happiness shone on his face. In short order a bunch of his playmates arrived at the house. Kakutarō sat at the table cleaning his teeth with a toothpick and listened to the sound of children at play coming from Shōichi’s room.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 2 —
    </p>
    <p>
     The children did not remain for long in Shōichi’s room. They began to play tag or some such game, and could be heard running from one room to the next. The sound of the maid’s voice trying to bring them under control also reached Kakutarō in his study. Much to their surprise, several of the children opened the sliding doors to the study and found him within.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Aw, it’s just Shōichi’s father.”
    </p>
    <p>
     One of the children made this impudent remark as they stared at Kakutarō, then they ran off in the opposite direction. Eventually Shōichi, too, burst into the study. “I’m gonna hide here,” he declared, and crawled under his father’s desk.
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakutarō’s heart was gladdened by the activity around him. Right then and there he decided to spend the rest of the day tending to his potted plants and taking part in the children’s play.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Shōichi, settle down a bit. Go call the others and I’ll tell you a story.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Yeah, that would be great!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Shōichi jumped out from under the desk and dashed from the room.
    </p>
    <p>
     “My father’s a great storyteller, you know.”
    </p>
    <p>
     With this audacious remark, Shōichi led his friends into Kakutarō’s study.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Okay, tell us a story. And make it a scary one.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The children sat down clustered closely together. Their eyes flickering with a queer light as they watched Kakutarō’s face with a mixture of embarrassment and anticipation. They had no idea about his medical condition, and even if they did, they were just children, so they showed none of the excessive concern which adult visitors would have paid. This, too, pleased him.
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakutarō felt happier than he had in a long time. Thinking of stories to delight children, he began, “Once upon a time there was a land ruled by a greedy king.” When he finished one story, he did not even have to wait to hear the children shout “tell us another!” He told a second story, then a third, adding as many as he was in the mood to tell. His spirits were buoyed for as long as he was transported with the children to the world of fairy tales.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, that’s enough for now. How about a game of hide-and-seek? I’ll play, too,” Kakutarō pathetically volunteered.
    </p>
    <p>
     “All right, let’s play hide-and-seek!”
    </p>
    <p>
     By way of approval, the children wasted no time getting to their feet.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Okay, you can hide anywhere in the house. Ready, rock-paper-scissors!”
    </p>
    <p>
     As though he were a child himself, Kakutarō merrily joined in choosing the seeker. Maybe it helped him forget his illness, or perhaps it was an effort to show he was not hurt by his wife’s immoral conduct. In any event, there was definitely a measure of desperation in his behavior.
    </p>
    <p>
     The first few times he intentionally became the seeker so he could look for the children’s innocent hiding places. When he tired of this and went off to hide, however, he had to take great pains to conceal his much larger frame in the closet or under the desk as the children had done.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Are you ready?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “No, not yet.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The voices echoed weirdly through the house.
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakutarō was hidden alone in the dark closet of his study. He could faintly hear the seeker going from room to room, crying, “I found so-and-so.” One child let out a squeal as he burst from his hiding place. Eventually each was discovered, until it seemed that only Kakutarō was left. He gathered that the children were tramping through the house together in search of him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Where did your father hide?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Come out, come out, wherever you are!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Hearing the children’s chatter, Kakutarō approached the door of the closet.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ah-ha, my father’s gotta be hiding in the closet.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He heard Shōichi speaking in a whisper at the sliding doors. Although he was just on the verge of being discovered, Kakutarō took it into his head to play a trick on the children. Opening the lid of an old hope chest, he crawled in and shut the lid back in place. He breathed a sigh of relief. Something soft, perhaps sheets and blankets, were inside the chest. It was just like lying in bed: not unpleasant in the least.
    </p>
    <p>
     Just as he set the lid back on top of the chest, the sliding doors of the room burst open with a clatter like heavy boards rattling.
    </p>
    <p>
     “We’ve got him!”
    </p>
    <p>
     He heard a voice shout.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Aw, he’s not in here.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “But we heard something a second ago, right?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “It must’ve been a mouse.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The children innocently conferred amongst themselves in whispers (to Kakutarō hidden inside the chest they sounded extremely far away), but no matter how long they waited, they could find no sign of him in the dark closet.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s a monster!” one of the children cried and they darted away. He could faintly hear some of them going from one room to the next shouting, “Come on out already!” A few were still opening closet doors nearby and searching for him.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 3 —
    </p>
    <p>
     The pitch-black confines of the chest, which smelled strongly of camphor, were strangely comfortable. Kakutarō was suddenly overcome with fond memories from his childhood. This old chest once held his dead mother’s wedding trousseau. He used to pretend it was a ship, and often climbed inside it to play. He could almost see the kind face of his mother rising up from the darkness like a ghost.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he came to from his reveries, he wondered if the children hadn’t already abandoned their search, for there was no sound of them. Straining his ears, at last he heard,
    </p>
    <p>
     “This is boring! Why don’t we go play out front?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Although he could not tell which child said it, he heard these words coming from one spoilsport.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Papa—”
    </p>
    <p>
     It was Shōichi. He was making a last ditch effort to find him before going out to play with the others.
    </p>
    <p>
     When Kakutarō heard his son, he knew now was the time to get out of the chest. He intended to spring out and give the impatient children a good scare. Kakutarō gave the lid a good shove to throw it open, but for some reason it remained where it was and would not budge. As though nothing were particularly amiss, he repeatedly tried again to no avail until at last the terrifying reality dawned upon him. He had accidentally locked himself inside the old hope chest.
    </p>
    <p>
     The lid of the chest had an open metal clasp that fitted together with a metal fixture on the body. When Kakutarō shut the lid, he must have inadvertently let fall the upraised clasp, locking the chest as surely as if he had turned a key. Hope chests built in the old days were made of hard wooden boards with iron plates reinforcing the corners. It was nearly indestructible; and the clasp was made of the same strong stuff. There was no hope for a man in Kakutarō’s weakened state to break his way out.
    </p>
    <p>
     Loudly shouting Shōichi’s name, he banged his fists against the inside of the lid. But the children must already have given up on him and gone out front to play, because there was no reply. Next he called repeatedly for the maids, straining every muscle in his body as he threw himself against the lid. But it was no use struggling when luck was against him. The maids must have been out gossiping or out of earshot in their rooms. There was no response from them, either.
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakutarō’s room, where the closet was located, was the furthest down the hall. However he might scream inside the tightly locked chest, it was doubtful that his voice would carry even two or three rooms away. To make matters worse, the maids’ room was right next to the kitchen, all the way at the other end of the house. Unless they were especially careful in listening, they would never catch a single sound.
    </p>
    <p>
     Though he shouted with increasing desperation, the complete lack of response led Kakutarō to wonder if he was going to die inside the chest. Thinking how ridiculous it was for such a thing to befall him, he was almost tempted to laugh aloud, though it was hardly a laughing matter. Kakutarō’s illness left him sensitive to changes in the air, and now he noticed the air quality seemed to have gotten worse. Not only was he trapped, he was starting to feel shortness of breath as well. The meticulous construction methods of the old days did not appear to leave any cracks for a breath of air to slip into or out of the sealed hope chest.
    </p>
    <p>
     When this thought occurred to him, the energy that appeared to have been exhausted in his initially fierce struggles redoubled and he frantically struck and kicked at the chest with all his might. Had he been in better health, it would have been easy enough for his exertions to make a dent somewhere in the chest, but with his weak heart and frail, skinny limbs this was out of the question. The depleted air was also taking its toll on him. Exhaustion and fear made his throat painfully dry and scratchy when he tried to breathe. His feelings defied description.
    </p>
    <p>
     Were he trapped almost anywhere else, Kakutarō would surely accept his fate, knowing that sooner or later he was going to die from his illness anyway. But to suffocate inside a hope chest in a closet in his own home seemed too incredible, too ludicrous, to contemplate. No matter how weak he was, this absurd way of dying was loathsome to him. Possibly the maid would come in his direction. If so, he would be saved like in a dream. His pains would come to nothing worse than a funny story to tell others. He couldn’t give up while the chance of being saved was still high. Even so, the fear and suffering were terrible to endure.
    </p>
    <p>
     In the midst of his struggles, he cursed the blameless maids in a hoarse voice. He even cursed Shōichi. Neither the maids nor Shōichi could have been more than several dozen yards away, and though their lack of interest was not intentionally malicious, this very lack of culpability made him feel all the more reproachful toward them.
    </p>
    <p>
     In the darkness it grew harder to breathe with each passing moment. His voice had given out. When he exhaled, it produced an odd sound like a fish out of water gasping for air. His mouth was wide open. White teeth like a skull’s were bared to the root of the gums on both jaws. Although he knew it was useless to try, both of his hands were engaged in scratching the inside of the lid. He was no longer aware of his nails, torn and broken. He was in a paroxysm of death. Yet he still clung to a thread of hope, not giving in to death despite a cruelty to his body that went beyond words. His suffering was worse than any victim of a wasting illness, or even a man sentenced to death, could know.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 4 —
    </p>
    <p>
     Osei, his adulterous wife, came back to the house from her rendezvous with her lover about three o’clock that afternoon, just as Kakutarō, wheezing and writhing pitifully in the wooden chest, was on the verge of abandoning his last hopes of being saved. Osei had left the house in a flurry, with hardly a care for her husband’s feelings, but, as usual, she was not without feelings of guilt on her return. As she surveyed the open doorway leading into the house, where she was reminded daily of her failed marriage, her heart beat faster at the thought that today something might prove different.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hello, I’m home.”
    </p>
    <p>
     She paused for the maids’ customary reply before calling out again, but no one came to greet her at the door. There was no sign of anyone in the empty rooms. Above all else, it was peculiar that lay-about husband of hers was nowhere in sight.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Is anybody home?”
    </p>
    <p>
     She called out again in a high-pitched voice from the parlor. At last a hurried reply came from the maids’ room.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Yes, yes, I’m coming...”
    </p>
    <p>
     From the puffy look of her face, the maid appeared to have just awoken.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Are you alone?” Osei asked, making a point of holding in check her usually provocative manner.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Um, Otake is doing the wash behind the house.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “And my husband?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “He is in his study, I imagine.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “But he doesn’t appear to be there, does he?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh my, are you sure?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “What’s going on here? You must have fallen asleep. How irresponsible. And where is my son?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, he was playing at home all day, and um, the master was with him, playing hide-and-seek.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “My husband was playing, too? What a foolish thing to do. If that’s the case, then he must be in the yard. Go and find him. If he is there, you needn’t bother to call him back to the house,” Osei replied after listening to the maid recount the day’s events.
    </p>
    <p>
     Osei delivered her strict orders and walked to her dressing room She stood before the mirror for a moment before beginning the laborious process of changing out of her kimono.
    </p>
    <p>
     She was just about to undo the obi around her waist when she caught a strange scratching noise from her husband’s room next door. It did not sound like any insect she knew of, or like a mouse. Listening closely, it almost sounded like the faint rasp of a human voice.
    </p>
    <p>
     Osei stopped untying her obi. Steeling herself against a sense of unease, she opened the sliding doors to the room. Although she had not noticed it before, now she saw that the door to the closet was slightly ajar. The noise appeared to be emanating from within.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Help, I’m trapped in here.”
    </p>
    <p>
     So quiet as to be almost imperceptible came the muffled sound of a voice, but it reached Osei’s ears with incredible clarity. It was unmistakably the voice of her husband.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh dear, how on earth did you end up in the hope chest?”
    </p>
    <p>
     As might be expected, she hurried over to the side of the chest with alarm. Unfastening the latch, she murmured, “Ah, you were playing hide-and-seek, weren’t you? You certainly have a penchant for silly games... But why is the chest locked?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Now, if Osei were an evil woman, would not the speed with which she hatched her cruel plan reveal her true colors far more clearly than keeping a secret lover in violation of her marital vows? It just so happens that she had scarcely unlocked the chest and begun to lift the lid when a diabolical thought popped into her head. Without a second’s hesitation, she firmly shut the lid again and refastened the lock. At the very same moment, Kakutarō made a final attempt to free himself. It must have cost him a tremendous effort, but to Osei it was nothing more than a feeble response. To overcome him, she merely had to replace the lid. Afterwards, when she looked back upon the cold-blooded murder of her husband, what haunted Osei more than anything else was the memory of that feeble response. It was hundreds of times more terrifying than any blood-stained murder scene.
    </p>
    <p>
     After Osei restored the lid of the chest, she quickly shut the closet door and hurried back to her own room. Not surprisingly, Osei lacked the nerve to remove her kimono. Instead, she sat ashen-faced before her dresser, opening and closing the drawers for no apparent reason other than to drown out the sounds coming from the room next door.
    </p>
    <p>
     If I keep this up, I ought to be safe.
    </p>
    <p>
     She was almost driven to distraction by the gravity of her actions. There was hardly time to regain her composure and think things over coolly. As soon as a thought came into her head, even an idea so impossible that it pained her to consider it, she would stand up, then immediately sit down again. She was wracked by indecision. After a few minutes she was able to partially catch her breath. She rapidly took stock of the situation but could find no mistakes that would lead back to her. She had discovered that he had closed the latch on himself, and Kakutarō was known to have been playing hide-and-seek with the children. Surely the children and the maids could testify to the fact that, however accidentally, he had locked himself inside the hope chest. As for her being unable to hear the thumps and screams inside the chest, it would be enough to demonstrate that it was a large house and leave it at that. Was this not exactly why the maids had no idea what had transpired?
    </p>
    <p>
     Of course Osei did not think things through so carefully all at once, but even without a better alibi, her cruel, sharp instincts reassured her, “Don’t worry, everything will be fine.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The maid she had sent off to look for the children had not yet returned. Nor was there any sign that the maid doing the wash behind the house had yet returned. She prayed for her husband’s cries and struggles to cease before they came looking for her. Though the desperate noises from the closet were so weak they were scarcely perceptible, still they persisted incessantly like a malevolent wind-up toy. Maybe it was just her imagination, but cocking her ear towards the door to the closet (which she did not dare open), she could have sworn the terrible commotion showed no sign of stopping. As if that were not bad enough, Kakutarō seemed to be muttering almost entirely meaningless gibberish from a tongue as rough and dry as sandpaper. There could be no doubt he was lofting fearsome curses at Osei. She was so horrified that she came dangerously close to reversing her decision not to open the chest, but she knew if she did it, the choice would be irreversible. Now that she had committed herself to murder, how could she save him?
    </p>
    <p>
     Even so, we might give pause to consider how Kakutarō felt, locked as he was in the chest. The sounds he was making were enough to give even his abominable wife second thoughts. But the suffering she imagined did not amount to one thousandth  – no, not one ten thousandth – of the world of agony he was in. Just when he thought he was beyond hope, his supposedly wicked wife unexpectedly appeared and unlocked the chest. Nothing could compare to the boundless joy he felt in that instant. Osei, against whom he made daily recriminations, could increase her adultery twofold or threefold and still he would be forever grateful to her. Regardless of how sickly a person may be, life is never more precious than when one hangs on the edge of death. But no sooner had he experienced that flash of joy than Kakutarō was cast headlong into a boundless hell with a despair that defied description. If he had died without a sign of help, his pain would not have been of this world, but how much more exponentially dreadful were the agonies brought him by the hand of his treacherous wife!
    </p>
    <p>
     If it was beyond Osei to fully appreciate the torment he felt, at least in the bounds of her own thoughts she pitied her husband’s excruciating death and reproached herself for her callousness. Yet there was no turning back for a femme fatale caught up in a once-in-a-lifetime affair. In her mind the funeral that lay ahead for the dead man in the now-silent closet was replaced with the image of her lover. Never mind the life of leisure guaranteed by her husband’s passing: it was enough for her to think of the uninhibited life she could lead with her lover to part with sympathy for the dead.
    </p>
    <p>
     She was thus able to regain control of herself in a manner unfathomable to ordinary people. Only seconds after Kakutarō’s last breath gave out, a cold, cruel smile flickered across the corners of her lips. At last, she began to untie her obi.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 5 —
    </p>
    <p>
     Around eight o’clock that night, Osei contrived an elaborate display of discovering the body, and the Kitamura household was turned upside down. The large house was filled with relatives, servants, doctors and the police, all of whom rushed to the scene as soon as they got word. Since the formalities of an inquest could not be dispensed with, a host of officials stood over Kakutarō’s corpse, purposely left just as it had been found inside the chest. What a distressing sight it must have been to see Kakujirō, the younger brother who grieved Kakutarō’s passing from the bottom of his heart, alongside Osei, her face stained by tears of deceit. Refusing to sit down, they mingled amongst the officials, their feelings scarcely to be guessed by outsiders.
    </p>
    <p>
     The hope chest was brought into the center of the parlor, and one of the policemen easily opened the lid. Powerful incandescent lamps illuminated Kakutarō’s hideously contorted figure. His hair, usually combed back neatly, was disheveled and wild, and his limbs were twisted as if he were still struggling against death. The eyeballs bulged in his head and his mouth gaped open almost wider than was physically possible. Insofar as Osei was not actually possessed by a devil, a hard look at his corpse would have forced her to confess her misdeeds on the spot. Nevertheless, if she could not bring herself to look directly at him, she was hardly about to confess to anything. Her tear-drenched alibi was nothing but a pack of lies. Osei found it peculiar how calm she was, even if it was the false courage which comes from killing another person. The woman who had stood with her heart pounding on the threshold of the doorway several hours earlier after returning from her illicit affair (and who was already sufficiently depraved at that) seemed to her like an entirely different person. On the face of things, it seemed as though she had been born with an evil spirit nestled inside her, which was only now revealing its true identity. There was no other apparent means of explaining how this unimaginable calm arose in response to the crisis with which she was now confronted.
    </p>
    <p>
     The postmortem investigation came to the conclusion that it was a tragic accident. The body of the deceased was entrusted to the family, who had it removed from the chest and transferred elsewhere. It was only after it was gone and things had quieted down a bit that for the first time anyone noticed the scratch marks on the inside of the lid.
    </p>
    <p>
     Even those who knew none of the details and did not witness Kakutarō’s horrible corpse firsthand thought the scratches were exceptionally startling. The fearsome obsessions of a dead man were carved into the wood with greater passion than any famous artist’s masterpiece. After a single glance there wasn’t a decent soul who could bear to go back for a second look.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was Osei and Kakujirō who came upon this horrifying discovery. They stayed behind while others carried the body away, gazing from either side of the hope chest, their eyes frozen on some strange markings on the inside of the lid. What in heaven’s name could they be?
    </p>
    <p>
     Faint as a shadow, it looked like writing in the illegible hand of a madman, but when perused closely, from the innumerable scratches it was possible to make out first one large letter, then one small, one askew, then one so distorted it took some time to read properly. At last it was clear – the four letters spelled out “O-S-E-I.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s you he had in mind, wasn’t it?” Kakujirō pronounced in a low tone, staring at Osei.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Why yes, I think you’re right.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Can we pretend to feel shocked at the cold words that came from Osei now? Of course she knew exactly what the letters meant. Before his life’s breath was extinguished, the enervated Kakutarō wrote the letters to curse her. His obsession, cut short in death as he scratched the last line of the letter “I,” was to keep writing, to record that Osei murdered him. But no matter how he desired to keep writing, sadly, this was denied him, and rancor to last a thousand years was forever locked away in those four short letters.
    </p>
    <p>
     Kakujirō, who was essentially a good man, was positively incapable of taking his suspicions that far. The meaning of those four letters “O-S-E-I” could not possibly point to murder. Kakujirō came away with vague doubts about Osei, yet was convinced that his older brother had felt some lingering attachment to her. Unable to stop thinking about her even at death’s door, Kakutarō must have written her name to show the powerful emotions he felt until the end.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh dear, look how he worried about me.”
    </p>
    <p>
     After a long pause in which she waited for Kakujirō to take her words to mean that she regretted her adultery, Osei sighed deeply. Then she suddenly drew her handkerchief to her face (what celebrated actor could shed false tears so convincingly?) and sobbed uncontrollably.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 6 —
    </p>
    <p>
     After Kakutarō’s funeral was over, the first part of Osei’s plan was to break off relations with her illicit lover, if only for the sake of appearances. Then she devoted herself in countless stratagems to erase Kakujirō’s suspicions. To some degree, she met with success. If only temporarily, Kakujirō succumbed to the deceptions of this alluring woman.
    </p>
    <p>
     In this way, Osei received a greater share of the inheritance money than she had hoped for. Taking her son Shōichi with her, she sold the old house and moved from place to place. She steered away from the prying eyes of the family and skillfully kept up her cover.
    </p>
    <p>
     Osei was forced to accept the problematic hope chest, which she secretly sold to an antique furniture store. One can only speculate upon how many hands it has passed through since then. Did not the scratches and ominously scrawled letters arouse the curiosity of its new owners? Who could remain unmoved at the terrible passions the former owner poured into those scratches? Surely he must have had a certain woman in mind when he wrote those mysterious letters, “O-S-E-I.” But on the other hand, who knows? Perhaps it was nothing more than an inscription to an innocent maiden unblemished by the ugliness of the world.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      Poison Weeds
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Dokusō · 1927
    </p>
    <p>
     It was a fine clear day in autumn when a good friend of mine came to visit. After a long and lively conversation, I turned to him and said, “The weather certainly is pleasant, isn’t it? How about if we step outside and take a stroll?” Since my house is located on the edge of town, we decided to walk over to a field nearby.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was a clearing overgrown with weeds, where even in the daytime fall insects could be heard singing here and there. A creek not more than a few feet across trickled through the field. There were patches of bumpy hills. We plopped ourselves down on a slope and gazed up at the clear blue sky unblemished by a single cloud. We also looked at the muddy stream just below our feet and surveyed the seemingly infinite variety of small weeds growing on its banks. “Ah, it’s autumn,” I sighed at last, and for a good while we sat there without saying another word.
    </p>
    <p>
     For some reason, a tuft of vegetation growing along the sodden banks of the creek caught my attention.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Say, do you have any idea what that is?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Not a clue,” gruffly responded by friend, who hasn’t the least interest in nature.
    </p>
    <p>
     But I knew that no matter how much he despised flowers and plants, at least this bit of vegetation would pique his interest. Or rather, I should say, precisely because he was a man with little appreciation for nature, the strange properties this plant possessed would come across as all the more extraordinary to him. Seeing this as an opportunity to show off my knowledge of arcane matters, I told him what it was used for.
    </p>
    <p>
     “That one is called XXXX. It grows pretty much everywhere. It’s poisonous, but not terribly potent. Ordinary folks think it’s just another kind of weed. They pay no attention to it. But this plant can be used as a drug for abortion. To terminate a pregnancy in days like these when there are shortages of medicine, it’s the best remedy around. In olden times it was this very plant which midwives would secretly use to brew potions to induce miscarriages.”
    </p>
    <p>
     As I expected, my friend became extremely inquisitive when he heard this. He implored me to tell him the methods for preparing the drug. “Well, well,” I teased. “What’s the matter, have you got some pressing need for it?” Despite my lighthearted comments, however, I proceeded to explain the complicated instructions to him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You take this part here and tear off a piece as long as the width of your palm. Then you peel off the outer fiber and...”
    </p>
    <p>
     I guided my friend through the secret directions, gesturing as I went along. It was great fun. I watched his face light up with interest as I clued him in on every last detail.
    </p>
    <p>
     Having broached the subject of abortion, we turned to the question of birth control. My friend and I readily agreed that it was chiefly a matter of concern for the younger generation. We were in favor of birth control. But in contrast to its abuse among the propertied classes, there were few in the underclass who so much as knew a contraceptive movement existed. In my own neighborhood there was actually a slum-like row house filled with families burdened with more children than they could care for. We fell to talking about these issues at length.
    </p>
    <p>
     During our conversation, I could not shake from my mind the image of the aging postman’s family, which lived right behind my house. In spite of over a decade’s service delivering third-class mail in town, the poor fellow’s salary scarcely amounted to fifty yen (ten thousand yen by today’s standards) and his bonus for the o-bon holiday did not add up to twenty yen. He was fond of alcohol and always had a drink with dinner, but remained extremely steadfast in his duties. He was the type of man who had not failed to turn up every day for work in all those years. He was over fifty, but had married late in life. He had six children, the oldest of whom was twelve. The rent alone cost ten yen.
    </p>
    <p>
     The question is, how did they carry on from day to day? In the evenings, his eldest daughter would carry his precious sake bottle to the liquor store to fill it up with his nightly drink. I would witness this piteous sight every day from the second story of my house. His three-year-old boy, already past the age of breast-feeding, would launch into sickly crying fits (could it be infant hysteria?) every night. The five-year-old girl, who was next closest in age, suffered from boils on her head and face. Whether they itched or hurt, she too would cry hysterically into the night. You could well imagine how their forty-year-old mother felt about them. To make matters worse, her stomach was swollen with yet another on the way. This problem was in no way limited to the postman’s family behind my house. Next door, and in the house behind theirs, there were plenty of families similarly burdened with too many children. In this wide world, how many scores of households are there as unfortunate as the postman’s?
    </p>
    <p>
     My friend and I debated these matters with no end in sight until at last the short autumn day was tinged with sunset. The blue sky had darkened to the color of washed ink, and the frames of the houses in the neighborhood stood out in the fading light. The ground beneath us had now become inexplicably cold. We stood up and decided to head our respective ways home. But just as I was getting to my feet, I sensed something on the hill behind my back. Instinctively turning around, I saw the outline of a lone woman against the dusky sky like a wooden statue. Possibly it was due to the fact that there was nothing but the sky as background, for she seemed to take on monstrous proportions. But a moment later, I realized it was something far more terrifying than a ghost. The figure that stood frozen there was none other than the pregnant wife of the postman whose sad story I had just related.
    </p>
    <p>
     The muscles in my face stiffened, and I was quite unable to utter so much as a word of greeting. She, too, stared off with a hollow gaze in another direction and did not attempt to make eye contact with me. All the same, it was abundantly clear that illiterate middle-aged woman had soaked up every last word we’d said.
    </p>
    <p>
     As though to make our escape, we hastily retreated back to my house. A strange silence gripped us, and we scarcely exchanged good-byes when we parted. For both of us, but especially for me, her eavesdropping and the consequences it foreboded were too alarming to contemplate.
    </p>
    <p>
     No sooner was I home than panic set in about the untimely appearance of my neighbor’s wife. She’d almost certainly been there from the start, and there was no doubt in my mind that she heard my entire account about the special properties of that plant. During my explanation, I couldn’t resist boasting about how easily the plant could be used to induce abortion without the slightest pangs of discomfort. Wasn’t it obvious the sort of thoughts a pregnant woman burdened with too many children would have upon hearing this? Giving birth to this child would require a costly sacrifice beyond her existing hardships. She was already getting on in years, but with a newborn child at her bosom and a three-year-old on her back, she still had to clean and cook. Despite her present condition, it was almost a ritual affair for her husband to lose his temper and needlessly shout at her. Her five-year-old daughter’s hysterics were getting worse by the day. What if these troubles could be eliminated without the slightest danger, just by taking a single clump of nameless weeds – how could she not think about it?
    </p>
    <p>
     What did I have to be afraid of? Wasn’t I an advocate of contraception? If the postman’s wife followed my instructions, I told myself, it would lay to rest an unwanted life that would have been dragged from one place of darkness to another, and where’s the harm in that? I was able to come up with rationalizations like this. But no amount of excuses could keep me from shuddering convulsively. I was stricken with fear as though I’d committed the horrific crime of murder.
    </p>
    <p>
     It somehow felt inappropriate to sit there and do nothing, so I restlessly paced around the house. I headed up to the verandah on the second floor where the field could be seen. In the dusk I could just barely discern the area on the hill where we sat (the postman’s wife was no longer there). For no good reason, I raced down the stairs at a breakneck pace, even taking them two or three at a time, foolishly causing a tremendous racket. I quickly slipped on my geta clogs in the entrance of my house. Several times I indecisively opened and closed the front door before I finally decided to return to the bottom of the hill.
    </p>
    <p>
     I could scarcely see more than a few feet in front of my face in the twilight. Still, out of a desire not to be seen by anyone, I cowered down, constantly glancing behind me as I wended my way back to the hill. I could hear the black waters of the stream trickling through the grey mist. Several feet away in the grass, some sort of insect was keening in a weirdly clear pitch. I went cold as I spied a specimen of that plant. It should have been immediately recognizable by its plump, round leaves and monstrously thick stem that stood out from the other short weeds. But when I took a closer look, I saw that half of its stem had been broken off. It bore the oddly forlorn air of a crippled man who’d lost an arm.
    </p>
    <p>
     I stood motionless, shivering in the near-complete darkness. I pictured before me the ugly mug of that forty-year-old housewife, her perennially disheveled hair like a madwoman’s, coming to a frightening decision as my friend and I abandoned the hill – the flesh of her cheeks drawn tight, she ambles down the hill, gets down on all fours and snaps off a piece of that plant. It was a ridiculous, but, at the same time, an unspeakably dire scenario. Overcome with fear, I let out a scream and had a sudden desire to run far, far away.
    </p>
    <p>
     Several days later the sad situation of my neighbor’s wife still weighed heavily on my mind, but I forced myself not to think about it. I also resolved not to listen to gossip about her family. Every morning I would visit friends, go to a play or the yose theater,1 and stayed away from home until late into the night. But finally, one day as I was walking down the narrow alleyway to my house, I accidentally ran into my neighbor’s wife.
    </p>
    <p>
     She had an embarrassed grin on her face when she saw me (I can hardly say how ghastly that grin appeared to me) and said hello. I peered fiercely through her wild hair at her face, which was as bloodless and haggard as a convalescent’s. As I glowered at her, my gaze gradually drew downward to her waist. Though I expected the worst, it still took my breath away to see her deflated belly, practically folded in half like that of a starving dog.
    </p>
    <p>
     But the most gruesome part was yet to come. About a month later, as I brushed past my grandmother and the maid, I accidentally overheard a portion of their conversation.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s certainly a bad month for miscarriages, isn’t it?,” I heard my grandmother say.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh gracious, Ma’am!” This came from the maid, who let out a laugh that was hardly what you could call decorous.
    </p>
    <p>
     “But you said as much yourself, didn’t you? First there was the postman’s wife.” As she spoke, my grandmother started to count with her fingers. “Next came Mrs. Kitamura Okane, and then there was what’s-her-name from the candy store. Oh yes, now I remember, her name is Orui. So there you go, three women from this block alone. That’s why I say this has been quite a month for miscarriages.”
    </p>
    <p>
     My heart fairly skipped a beat as I listened in. From their conversation one might believe that the world had gone topsy-turvy.
    </p>
    <p>
     So this is what we call living? I don’t know exactly what it meant, but the words drifted through my mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     Once again my feet carried me from the entranceway back to that spot on the hill. It was a bright and sunny Indian summer day. A bird was leisurely tracing circles in the boundless blue sky. I refused to let myself be distracted and searched determinedly for specimens of that plant. But you see, something terrible had happened. Everywhere I looked, the stems of the plants I found were half-broken, looking for all the world like the exposed remains of mutilated corpses.
    </p>
    <p>
     Maybe it was the handiwork of mischievous children in the neighborhood. Or maybe not. To this day I cannot be sure who was truly responsible.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Stalker in the Attic
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Yaneura no sanposha · 1926
    </p>
    <p>
     Surely it must have been some sort of mental disease. Whether it was work or pleasure, or anything else he tried his hand at, there was nothing in this world Gōda Saburō found remotely stimulating.
    </p>
    <p>
     After finishing school – he could practically count on one hand the number of days he’d bothered showing up for class – Saburō traipsed from one job to another. Yet he never came across anything that seemed worthy of devoting his entire life to. It’s possible there wasn’t an occupation in this world capable of satisfying him. He frequently changed jobs, lasting at most a year, sometimes no more than a month. Then, finally, as if to say he’d thrown in the towel, he stopped looking for another job. He literally did nothing at all, passing one listless day after another.
    </p>
    <p>
     He fared no better with leisure pursuits. He went in for playing cards, billiards, tennis, swimming, mountain climbing, go, chess, and every type of gambling known to man – in short, more diversions than I can possibly write down here. He left no stone unturned in his search for amusement, even going to the lengths of purchasing some kind of hobby encyclopedia, but it was the same as with work. No matter where he looked, nothing held his attention and he always came away disappointed. Now, dear reader, no doubt you are saying to yourself, what about those two great pleasures in this world, women and wine, that are never satisfied? For some strange reason, neither held an attraction for this fellow Gōda Saburō. Alcohol must not have agreed with him, because he never drank a single drop. As for women, it wasn’t for a lack of desire, since he did his fair share of cavorting around, but it was never enough to make him feel this was what made life worth living.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It would be better to die than eke out an existence in this dreary world,” he was prone to thinking. Yet even a person like him possessed the instinct to cherish life as a gift. He arrived at the age of twenty-five muttering thoughts of death, but came no closer to taking his own life.
    </p>
    <p>
     Thanks to the generous monthly allowance he received from his family, his lifestyle was not adversely affected by forsaking work. One result of this sense of security may have been that it caused him to act with reckless abandon. If nothing else, he was at great pains to find new ways of making life interesting on the money his parents sent him. For instance, as with work and leisure pursuits, one of the things he frequently did was to change lodgings. It is scarcely an exaggeration to say he knew every boarding house in Tokyo. Hardly a few weeks or a month passed before he went off in search of a new place to live. In the meantime, he wandered like a nomad. Sometimes he would hide away like a hermit in a mountain retreat. But for a person accustomed to city life as he was, it was impossible to stay for long in the lonesome countryside. No sooner would he set out on a journey than before he knew it he would feel the city lights and crowded throngs beckoning, and he’d be right back in Tokyo. It goes without saying that each time this happened he switched to another boarding house.
    </p>
    <p>
     For his latest move Saburō chose the Tōeikan, which had been built so recently the paint was still fresh on the walls. It was here, in this brand-new boarding house, that he discovered an exquisite kind of pleasure. The main plot of this story concerns a murder case related to his discovery, but before we proceed too far, I should explain the sequence of events that led Gōda Saburō to become an acquaintance of the amateur detective Akechi Kogorō and thus develop a new interest in crime, a matter to which he’d never given a thought in the past.
    </p>
    <p>
     The two of them first became acquainted when they met quite by accident at a café, where a mutual friend introduced him to Akechi. Saburō was completely taken by Akechi’s intelligent looks, his manner of speaking and the way he carried himself. From then on, he frequently paid visits to Akechi. Sometimes Akechi, too, would visit Saburō at his boarding house. For his part, Akechi seemed to take an interest in Saburō’s pathological personality (as a kind of research case). Meanwhile, Saburō could not conceal his enjoyment listening to Akechi’s wealth of fascinating crime stories.
    </p>
    <p>
     For instance, he heard about Dr. Webster, who murdered his colleague and burned his body to ash in the laboratory assay oven.1 Then there was the murderous crime of Dr. Eugene Aram, who was knowledgeable about many languages and made groundbreaking discoveries in linguistics,2 and the insurance fraud Wainewright, who also happened to be a prominent art critic.3 Likewise, he heard about Noguchi Osaburō, who boiled the flesh of small children to make medicine for his in-laws.4 And let’s not forget Landru,5 who married and killed as many wives as a latter-day Bluebeard, or the cruel murder story of Armstrong.6 We can only guess how these stories delighted the ennui-ridden Saburō. When he listened to Akechi’s eloquent speaking style, he experienced an indescribable feeling as if these tales of crime were vividly floating up before his eyes like a gaudy, gorgeously illustrated picture scroll.
    </p>
    <p>
     After he had known Akechi for two or three months, Saburō looked as though he had forgotten all about his world-weariness. He bought piles of crime-related books and greedily devoured them day after day. Among them were books by Poe, Hoffman, and Gaboriau,7 jumbled in amongst a slew of other detective novels. “I had no idea there was still something in this world worthy of my attention,” he thought with a sigh of relief as he turned the last page of each book. And then he started to have reckless thoughts how it would be if he undertook his own daring, outrageous adventures like the protagonists of these crime stories.
    </p>
    <p>
     But in spite of himself, he couldn’t bring himself to cross the line and break the law. He may have been willing to turn a blind eye to the insult and injury it would inflict on his parents, siblings, family, and friends, but he didn’t yet have the courage to indulge in these pleasures. From the books he read, he knew that no matter how skillfully a crime is committed, there is always a fatal flaw somewhere which leads to its discovery. With the exception of a few special cases, it is impossible to evade detection by the police forever. This is what most frightened him. It was his misfortune not to feel any interest in everyday affairs, and instead to have an unspeakable attraction to crime. To make matters worse, the dread of this realization couldn’t stop him from acting on this fascination with crime.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he had done all that he could by reading his books, the next step was to begin simulating criminal acts. Because it was mere simulation, there was no need to fear punishment. For instance, he did the following.
    </p>
    <p>
     He found a renewed interest in Asakusa, that neighborhood in Tokyo’s old downtown which he’d grown so utterly bored of. Bursting from its toy-box and draped in a rainbow of gaudily colored paints, the amusement grounds of Asakusa were the ultimate stage for the criminally inclined. He set out there to happily lose himself in strangely empty places like the dark, narrow alleys between movie theaters, scarcely wide enough for a person to squeeze through, or the spaces behind the public toilets. He’d scrawl arrows in chalk on the walls in the area as if to communicate with fellow criminals. When he spied a wealthy-looking pedestrian he’d pretend to be a pickpocket and see how far he could trail the victim. He’d write weirdly cryptic messages on scraps of paper – always giving details about some terrifying murder – and stuff them between the slats on park benches or hide them beneath shady trees, then lie in wait to watch someone discover them. In this fashion he devised various ways of amusing himself.
    </p>
    <p>
     He also frequently donned disguises and wandered from neighborhood to neighborhood. He tested out different disguises including a laborer, a beggar, and a student, but the one which most pleased his peculiar habits was dressing as a woman. He sold off his kimono and watch to make money, and spent it collecting expensive wigs and used women’s clothes. After spending a long time trying out his favorite female get-ups, he would wrap himself from head to toe in an overcoat and slip out the door of the boarding house in the small hours of the night. When the coast was clear he would remove the overcoat. Sometimes he would wander around a deserted park, while other times he would go to a movie theater at peak hours and “accidentally” make his way to the men-only seats, to seductively entice them. These clothes made him feel as though he were living out the illusion of being a femme fatale like Dakki no Ohyaku or Uwabami Oyoshi,8 and he got a thrill imagining he had men at his mercy to do with as he pleased.
    </p>
    <p>
     Nevertheless, while this play-acting at crime satisfied his desires to a degree, and even on occasion precipitated a rather interesting incident or two, it afforded him only a temporary sense of relief. It was, in the end, only play-acting and the element of danger – the appeal of crime, at least for some, lies precisely in its danger – was lacking; it didn’t give him the thrill he desired. After three months the pleasures of make-believe dissipated. And now his acquaintance with Akechi, which had been so beguiling to him, also faded away.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 2 —
    </p>
    <p>
     Our story continues with Gōda Saburō and Akechi Kogorō’s dealings, and reveals even more of Saburō’s criminal inclinations than what the reader has already learned. But before we return to the subject at hand, let me take a moment to describe the thrilling discoveries Gōda Saburō made in the newly built Tōeikan boarding house.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō couldn’t wait until the construction of the Tōeikan was complete and he moved in right away. This was about a year after he met Akechi. By then he’d already lost interest in play-acting at crime, but with nothing else to take its place, it was all he could do to pass day after day in sheer boredom. When he moved to the Tōeikan he made some new acquaintances, but no matter how entertaining they were, he regarded human beings as the most idiotic of all living things. Everywhere you looked, you found the same thoughts, the same expressions, the same words, repeated over and over again. Despite his change of lodgings and encounters with new people, Saburō sunk back into the bottomless depths of ennui before the week was over.
    </p>
    <p>
     Then something happened, ten days after he moved into the Tōeikan. In an excess of boredom he hit upon a wild idea. In his room, which was on the second floor, there was a large closet next to the cheap-looking tokonoma alcove. Inside, between the upper and lower tracks of the sliding door, was a sturdy shelf that spanned the length of the closet, dividing it into top and bottom halves. He piled up various articles on the lower shelf and decided to lay his bedding on the upper shelf. But instead of pulling the blankets and bedding out one by one and laying them on the floor in the middle of the room, he would often leave the futons piled up over the entire shelf as his bed. When he got tired, he decided to try lying there for a change. Had it been any of the other boarding houses, even if it had the same sturdy shelf, the walls would have been moldy and filthy, and the ceiling covered in cobwebs – hardly the sort of place you’d want to put your head. But because this closet was in a brand-new building, it was extremely clean. The ceiling was gleaming white and the sleek walls painted yellow without a smudge in sight. Partially due to the way the shelf was built, the whole arrangement imparted the feeling of a bunk on a ship. He even felt a strange temptation to try sleeping there.
    </p>
    <p>
     From that night on he began to sleep in the closet. In this boarding house each room had a private door that locked from the inside, so he could carry on his eccentric behavior in peace without worrying about the maid coming in unannounced. When he bedded down there it felt better than he expected. He piled up four futons and softly rolled himself on top. It gave him a queer feeling to stare up and see the ceiling a mere two feet from his face. When he shut the sliding doors on the closet and peered at the thread of electric light coming through the gap, he felt like a character in a detective novel. It gave him a thrill to open the doors a crack and look at his room as a burglar would spy into a stranger’s room. He imagined all kinds of exciting scenarios and was fascinated by gazing. Sometimes during the day he would crawl into the largish rectangular box of the closet and lose himself in fantastic delusions while puffing away on his favorite cigarettes. At such moments white smoke billowed out from the gap between the sliding doors as if a fire had broken out in the closet.
    </p>
    <p>
     However, after two or three days of this eccentric behavior, he discovered another strange thing. Around the third day or so, the easily bored Saburō grew weary of his bed in the closet, and with nothing better to do, he wrote graffiti on the walls or the wooden boards of the ceiling in the closet, wherever his hand could reach from where he lay. Then he noticed it. One of the ceiling boards directly above his head had not been nailed down or had otherwise come loose. When he tried lifting it with his hand to see what would happen, it came up without any difficulty. More curiously, when he withdrew his hand it snapped right back into place like a spring-driven mechanism, even though there weren’t any nails where they were supposed to be. It seemed that someone had fastened it in place from above.
    </p>
    <p>
     If that was the case, it occurred to him, maybe there was something living up there, like a big rat snake. Saburō’s enthusiasm suddenly cooled, but since it would be a shame to give up so easily, he tried pushing against the board again. This time there wasn’t a strong feeling of resistance, but rather a dull rolling sound from above as he lifted the ceiling board. Things just kept getting stranger. He mustered all of his strength to push the ceiling board aside. In that instant there was a rattling sound and something came loose over his head. He quickly rolled to one side, which was good, he thought, because if he hadn’t he might have been seriously injured when the object landed on him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Huh, what a joke.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He had expected something unusual, but when he got a good look at what hit him, he was truly surprised. It was smaller than a pickling stone, little more than a pebble. Eventually he realized there was nothing particularly mysterious about it. When the electricians crept through the crawlspace in the ceiling they purposely left one panel loose, but to keep dust and cobwebs from getting into the closet they weighed it down with a small stone.
    </p>
    <p>
     It seemed to him outlandishly funny. But this comedy provided him with an opportunity – it turned out that Gōda Saburō had discovered a delightful new entertainment.
    </p>
    <p>
     He lay there for some time gazing up at the hole in the ceiling, which brought to mind the entrance of a cave. His initial curiosity prompted him to wonder what on earth it looked like up there, so he cautiously poked his head into the cavity and took a look around. It was first thing in the morning and the roof was already illuminated with sunlight. Dozens of slender rays of light were shining out from the cracks as though innumerable search lights were roving across the recesses of the attic. It was inconceivably bright.
    </p>
    <p>
     What first caught his eye was the ridgepole running lengthwise; long, thick and sinuous like a giant snake. Although it was brightly lit for an attic, he couldn’t see too far ahead. Since it was a long, narrow building, the ridgepole was of considerable length, but it got hazier as he looked further into the attic, making the ridgepole seem as though it were strung along into the distance. Like so many ribs of a giant snake, beams running perpendicular to the ridgepole poked out at an incline on both sides of the attic. This made for a great spectacle on its own, but there was also a considerable number of slender poles coming down from the beams to support the roof, making him feel as though he were gazing upon the interior of a limestone cavern.
    </p>
    <p>
     “This is fantastic,” Saburō spontaneously murmured when he got his first real look around the attic. Where normal people would have seen something trifling, this pathological fellow, who took no interest in the ordinary world, conversely found an indescribable charm.
    </p>
    <p>
     From that day on he began his “attic walks.” Day or night, whenever he had a spare moment, he silently stole around the ridgepole and timber beams like a cat burglar. Fortunately for him, because the Tōeikan had been built so recently there were no cobwebs, soot, or dust collecting in the attic, nor even the filthy traces of mice. There was no need to worry about his clothes, hands or feet getting dirty. Dressed only in shirtsleeves, he had a field day taking over the attic. It was springtime and even though it was an attic, it was neither too hot nor too cold.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 3 —
    </p>
    <p>
     As was the case with many lodging houses, the Tōeikan boarding house surrounded a central garden, its rooms lining up to form a square around the courtyard. Because the attic, too, followed this shape, there was no terminal point to the building. Saburō would enter the attic from the ceiling in his room and walk around in a circle, only to return to the starting point above his own room.
    </p>
    <p>
     The walls in the rooms below were exceedingly sturdy and the doors were fitted with metal locks, so we can only guess what a liberating experience it was the first time he climbed up into the attic. He was free to walk over any room he chose with impunity. Scattered here and there were other rooms just like Saburō’s with weighted stones blocking the crawlspace, so if he were so inclined he could sneak into someone else’s room and steal their belongings. As I’ve explained, if you used the corridor of this square-shaped building to try such a thing, it not only meant that you could be seen from any direction, but you might run into another boarder or maid at any time, making it extremely risky. On the other hand, there was no danger whatsoever using the passage overhead in the attic.
    </p>
    <p>
     The opportunity to spy on his neighbors and learn their secrets was now at his fingertips. It may have been a new building, but it was shoddily built with gaps scattered through the ceiling boards. You wouldn’t know it from standing inside a room, but when seen from the attic it was surprising how many gaps there were. On rare occasions, a knothole could also be found.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he discovered the wondrous stage of the attic, that predilection for crime which at some point had subsided came rushing back into Saburō’s head. His earlier forays paled in comparison to the thrilling crimes he’d act out now with this attic for a stage. The mere thought of it sent him into raptures. “How is it possible such incredible excitement could be so near at hand, and all this time I didn’t realize it,” he wondered. He walked around this dark world like a demon, spying on each of the twenty or so inhabitants of the Tōeikan’s second floor and learning their secrets one after the other. This alone was enough to fill Saburō with delight. For the first time in ages he felt a reason to live.
    </p>
    <p>
     To whet his appetite further when he went for an attic walk, he didn’t neglect to dress the part of a real criminal. He wore a tight-fitting dark brown homespun shirt and matching long tights – if he could have managed it, he would have preferred to wear a jet-black shirt like the lady spy Protéa he’d seen long ago in a movie,9 but unfortunately he had no such thing on hand, so he made the best of the situation. He put on tabi socks and gloves – this in spite of the fact that the timber in the attic was rough hewn, which practically eliminated the chance of leaving fingerprints behind – and in his hand... it was a pistol that he wanted but didn’t have, so instead he carried an electric flashlight.
    </p>
    <p>
     Unlike daytime, there was a scant amount of light streaming in at dusk. He stealthily crept through the attic, taking care not to make a single peep in the dark, where he couldn’t see more than an inch in front of his face. Somehow he felt like it was he that had become a snake, and he felt strangely afraid in spite of himself. But whatever the cause of his fright, a blood-quickening thrill ran through him.
    </p>
    <p>
     In this way he passed several days in ecstasy pursuing his attic walks. During that time, and in ways he hadn’t counted on, there were various happenings that delighted him. They were surely enough to fill the pages of a novel, but since they don’t directly concern the main subject of this story, I regret to say I will have to leave them be and only mention a few basic details.
    </p>
    <p>
     I’m afraid it’s impossible if you’ve never actually done it to imagine the bizarre fascination of spying on others from the attic. Even if nothing special is going on below, watching people expose their true selves when they think no one else is around is worthwhile on its own merits. When he paid close attention, he was more than a bit surprised to discover certain people not only behaved differently when there were other people nearby than when they were alone, but their facial features completely change. What’s more, unlike the usual way of looking at faces in profile from the same horizontal point of view, he was looking down on them. The difference in the angle of the eye makes an ordinary room into a weird spectacle. Seen from above, the top of the human head and shoulders as well as the upper parts of book shelves, desk, bureau, hibachi brazier and so on are what stand out most to the naked eye. The walls, too, are almost invisible; instead, every item in the room is framed by tatami mats.
    </p>
    <p>
     It didn’t matter if nothing was going on: besides the thrill of peeping, there were often comical, sad, and sometimes incredible spectacles transpiring below. There was a company employee with a penchant for fiery anti-capitalist rants who kept taking out the pay raise letter he’d just received from his briefcase when no one was around and then putting it back, reading it countless times with unabated pleasure. There was a certain stockjobber who wore his best kimono as everyday attire and put on the airs of a vainglorious millionaire, but just before bed he would take off the kimono he’d worn so casually during the daytime, and not only did he fastidiously fold it up and place it under his futon like a girl, whenever he saw a spot he’d assiduously lick it with his mouth, since the best way to remove small stains is supposedly to lick them. Such was his method of cleaning them. There was a pimply-faced boy, a baseball player at a certain university, who revealed cowardice unbecoming of an athlete. He’d leave a love letter to the maid on the tray after he finished his dinner, then think better of it and take it away, then put it back again. He did the same fidgety thing over and over again. The most daring of the lot took a woman home (was she a prostitute?) and did things I can’t write here – terrifying, maniacal acts. With no one the wiser, Saburō could spy to his heart’s desire.
    </p>
    <p>
     He was also interested in conducting research on emotional conflicts between the boarders. Depending on who is interacting with whom, the same person can display a range of attitudes. A person who was chatting with a smile until a moment ago could go into the room next door and unleash a volley of curses like a wrathful devil; by the same token, there are people who flit about like bats paying lip service to others, but speak ill of those same people behind their back. When it came to female boarders –  there was a female art student who lived on the second floor of the Tōeikan – the situation became even more entertaining.
    </p>
    <p>
     Never mind a “love triangle” – the fact that she was involved in a complicated, five- or six-sided relationship was obvious to everyone. Yet while none of the girl’s suitors knew her true intentions, the one person with a clear grasp of the situation was none other than that outsider, the stalker in the attic. There are many fairy tales about people who cover themselves with a magic cloak of invisibility and use the opportunity to spy on others, which was practically the same thing as Saburō lurking up in the ceiling.
    </p>
    <p>
     It would have been a lot of fun creeping into other people’s rooms through the crawlspace to work mischief, but Saburō didn’t have the guts. On average about one room in three was the same as his, with a crawlspace held shut with weighted stones. While it wasn’t difficult to sneak into another boarder’s room, there was no way of knowing when the boarder might return. In addition, the windows were all shōji panels made of clear glass, so there was the danger of being spotted by someone outside. There was also no way to avoid making some kind of noise when he came down from the ceiling panels into a closet and opened the sliding doors to enter the room, or when he climbed up the closet to return to the attic. If a sound was heard by someone in the corridor or the room next door, that would be the end of him.
    </p>
    <p>
     Then something happened late one night. Saburō finished one circuit of his attic walk and was following one beam after another back to his room, which was on the far side of the garden, when he discovered a faint gap he’d never noticed before in a corner of the ceiling. It was a cloud–shaped aperture no more than two inches in diameter, and from it a ray of light thinner than thread was streaming out. Wondering what it was, he cautiously took out his flashlight to investigate. There was a largish knot in the wood, more than halfway separated from the surrounding board, but it somehow held together and avoided becoming a knothole by a hair’s breadth.
    </p>
    <p>
     If he just scraped the knot with his nail it looked as though it would easily come loose. Looking down through an open knothole to make sure the room’s occupant was sleeping, Saburō was careful not to make any noise as he methodically removed the knot. Conveniently for him, the knothole was shaped like a wineglass tapering toward the bottom, so if he plugged it back up the way it was, nothing could fall through, nor would anyone notice the large spyhole overhead.
    </p>
    <p>
     Delighted by this fortuitous turn of events, he peered down into the knothole. Unlike the other gaps which, however long, were never more than a few fractions of an inch wide, this one was more than an inch wide at its narrowest point, so it allowed him to easily survey the entire room. Saburō loitered there in spite of himself and gazed at the room. It was entirely by accident, but of all the boarders at the Tōeikan, this room belonged to the one Saburō detested the most: a dental school graduate named Endō, who worked in the city as a dental assistant. Endō had an unpleasantly flat, disgusting face that was even more sickening to look at as it slept below him.
    </p>
    <p>
     He was absurdly fastidious and his room was much tidier than those of the other boarders. The arrangement of stationery on his desk, the organization of books on the bookshelves, the way his futon was spread out, the alarm clock laid by the side of his pillow, which looked to be imported and was of a design Saburō had never seen before, the lacquer cigarette case, the colored glass ashtray – they attested to the fact that their owner was extremely fond of neatness and order. Endō even adopted a correct sleeping posture. The only thing out of place in this scene was his broad, open mouth and thunderous snoring.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō wrinkled his eyebrows as if he’d witnessed something dirty and stared at Endō’s face. His face was what you might call pretty. Of course to hear Endō tell it, his looks were popular with the ladies. But what stupid, elongated features he had. He had a thick head of hair and a long face, but he also had a shallow forehead with a widow’s peak, small eyebrows, squinty eyes with wrinkles at the corners as through he were always laughing, and a long nose and weirdly broad mouth. Saburō couldn’t stand his mouth. The area under his nose formed a ledge and his upper and lower jaws jutted out – those parts made a strange contrast with his pallid face – and his largish purple lips were spread apart. He must have had sinus congestion since his nose was always stuffed up and he breathed through his wide open mouth. His snoring was no doubt caused by this nasal malady.
    </p>
    <p>
     Whenever Saburō looked at Endō, a creepy-crawly feeling went up his spine and he suddenly wanted to punch him in his flat face.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 4 —
    </p>
    <p>
     While Saburō was staring at Endō’s face a strange thought occurred to him. If he were to spit down the hole, wouldn’t it land right in Endō’s wide-open mouth? It was as if Endō’s mouth had been custom-made to lie smack dab under the knothole. Saburō had weird tastes, so he took the drawstring out of the Western-style underpants he wore beneath his tights and dangled it from the top of the knothole. He put the drawstring to his eye and looked down it as though it were the sight of a rifle to see if he was right. It was an amazing coincidence. The drawstring, the knothole and Endō’s mouth lined up perfectly. In other words, he knew if he spit down the hole, it would definitely land in Endō’s mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
     To actually spit down the hole was out of the question, so Saburō plugged the knothole back up and got up to leave, but at that moment a terrifying thought flashed through his mind. In the pitch-black gloom of the attic he turned white as a sheet and shuddered in spite of himself. His thought was of murdering Endō, against whom he bore no real grudge.
    </p>
    <p>
     It wasn’t just that he bore no grudge against Endō: he had barely known him for more than two or three weeks. By coincidence they had moved in on the same day, and as a result they’d visited one another’s rooms a few times, but they never had any serious dealings. As I’ve just said, the fact that Endō’s looks and behavior were so irritating they made Saburō want to punch him in the face surely contributed to the reason why he wanted to kill Endō, but the main motive behind Saburō’s thinking wasn’t his character, but simply that he wanted to kill for the sake of killing. We’ve already noted that Saburō’s mental state was extremely abnormal and he harbored pathological criminal tendencies. The crime he found most attractive was murder, so it wasn’t entirely by accident that such a thought would arise in his mind. It was only that until now even if murderous desires frequently occurred to him, he was afraid of getting caught, and he never thought for a minute about going through with it.
    </p>
    <p>
     In the present situation with Endō, however, there was no reason to fear being suspected or uncovered, so it seemed possible to commit the murder. Provided there was no danger to himself, if the victim never saw him or knew who he was, Saburō wouldn’t hesitate to act. Or rather, the more barbaric the murder the more his bizarre desires could be gratified. So why did Saburō believe he could murder Endō and escape detection? Some kind of answer can be found in the following circumstances.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was four or five days after they moved into the Tōeikan. Saburō went to a neighborhood café with a fellow boarder with whom he’d just gotten acquainted. Endō showed up at the same café and the three of them sat down at the same table for a drink – Saburō, who detested liquor, drank coffee – and they were all having a good time. They headed back to the boarding house together, but the slightly tipsy Endō insisted, “Hey, why don’t you come to my room,” and dragged the two of them along to his room. Endō was enjoying himself, and, not caring how late it had become, called the maid to make tea and renewed their boisterous conversation from the café. From that night on, Saburō developed a hatred of him. At the time, Endō was licking his florid, plum-red lips and boasting about his exploits.
    </p>
    <p>
     “At one point I made a love suicide pact with this woman. I was still in school, you see, and I went to medical school. It was a piece of cake to get the drugs. So I prepared the morphine for the two of us to have a painless death, and, listen to this, we headed off for Shiobara.” 10
    </p>
    <p>
     Endō rose unsteadily, walked over to the closet, and opened the fusuma with a clatter. From the inside of a wicker trunk stored there he produced a brown-colored bottle scarcely larger than a man’s pinky and held it up to show them. There was only a tiny amount of some kind of white substance at the bottom.
    </p>
    <p>
     “This is it. A miniscule pinch is enough to kill two people... But you can’t say a word about it, not to anyone else.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He prattled on and on that night without pause, but what came unbidden into Saburō’s mind now was that talk about the drug.
    </p>
    <p>
     “If I sprinkled that drug from the knothole in the ceiling, I could kill a man! What a fantastic idea, beyond anyone’s wildest dreams! It will be the perfect murder.”
    </p>
    <p>
     This brilliant idea transported him to utter ecstasy. When he really thought about it, no matter how dramatic the method, he knew it was scarcely likely to succeed, and while there were surely many other and easier ways of committing murder without going to so much trouble, he was captivated by an abnormal fixation and no doubt was unable to think of anything else. In his mind nothing but convenient rationalizations for his plan floated up one after another.
    </p>
    <p>
     The first step was to steal the morphine. But that was no big deal. If he visited Endō’s room and got into a long chat, sooner or later Endō would have to go to the toilet and leave the room. He’d wait for his chance and then steal the small brown-colored bottle from that wicker trunk he knew on sight. Endō couldn’t always have a need to search its contents, so surely he wouldn’t notice for two or three days. Even if he did realize it was gone, he’d obtained it illegally so he couldn’t bring its theft to light. If Saburō did it cleverly, Endō wouldn’t have a clue who stole it from him.
    </p>
    <p>
     But wouldn’t it be easier to sneak into the room from the ceiling without going to such lengths? No, no, it would be too dangerous. As I’ve said before, there was no way of knowing when the room’s inhabitant would return, and there was a risk of being seen from the outside through the glass shōji. Besides that, in the first place Endō’s room did not have a crawlspace held in place by weighted stones as Saburō’s did. How could he dare take a risk by removing the nailed-down ceiling panels to sneak in?
    </p>
    <p>
     Well then, once he got a hold of this drug, it would be sufficient to dissolve it in water and let it drip down into Endō’s mouth, which would be gaping open thanks to his nasal congestion. His only fear was whether he would swallow enough of it, but that was fine, too. There was such a small amount of the drug that if he dissolved it thoroughly, a few drops would be enough, and in a deep sleep he wouldn’t even notice. Even if he did notice there would be no time to cough it up. Regardless of the fact that morphine is a harsh drug, as Saburō knew well, the dosage was miniscule, and if he mixed in some sugar, there would be no cause for alarm. No one would imagine a stunt like dripping poison from the ceiling, so if Endō managed to spit it out, there was no reason to look for him up there.
    </p>
    <p>
     Yet how well the drug took effect depended on Endō’s constitution, and if it was too much or too little, wasn’t there a question that he might just suffer without dying? That was a problem. Of course it would be extremely unfortunate if that happened, but there was no danger to Saburō personally. He would plug up the knothole the way it had been before, and since no dust had accumulated yet in the attic, there would be no trace of him. He would wear gloves to avoid leaving fingerprints. Should anyone deduce that the lethal drug had been dripped from the ceiling, it would be impossible to say whose work it had been. His acquaintance with Endō was brief and it was a fact that no one knew of any trouble between them that might lead Saburō to have a grudge against him or have a reason to hate him. But it wasn’t necessary to think that far ahead; there would be no way for anyone to tell what angle the drug had come from while Endō was fast asleep.
    </p>
    <p>
     This was the convoluted logic that passed through Saburō’s mind as he made his way back to his room from the attic. You, dear reader, have no doubt realized that even if all of these details went according to plan, there was still a critical error in his plans. But, strangely, until he was on the verge of carrying it out, it didn’t occur to him.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 5 —
    </p>
    <p>
     When a convenient opportunity arose four or five days later, Saburō paid a visit to Endō. In the intervening time he had repeatedly mulled over his plan until he determined that there was no risk involved for him. Nevertheless, he came up with various other provisions. For instance, he considered how to dispose of the medicine bottle.
    </p>
    <p>
     If he were able to murder Endō as planned, he decided to drop the bottle down the knothole. He hoped to obtain two benefits by doing so. First, there would be no need to conceal such a valuable piece of evidence as the bottle from being discovered; second, should the medicine bottle be found lying at the side of the dead man, anyone would surely conclude Endō had committed suicide. In addition, the fellow who had heard his boastful stories along with Saburō could certainly testify that the bottle belonged to Endō himself. What made things work even more in his favor was that Endō made sure to lock his door every night before going to sleep. Not only the door, but the windows and the safe in his room were locked, making it impossible for someone to enter from the outside.
    </p>
    <p>
     That day Saburō exercised extreme restraint, looking the loathsome Endō in the face and chatting with him for a long while about various topics. As they were talking, he had the highly dangerous urge to hint at his murderous intentions and scare Endō out of his wits, but he managed to hold it in check.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Soon enough,” he thought, “I’m going to kill you in such a way that not a shred of evidence will be left behind. You won’t be making idle chit-chat like a girl much longer, either. Go ahead and talk your head off while you can.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō silently repeated these words in his heart as he watched Endō’s large mouth perpetually in motion. It gave him no shortage of pleasure to think that in short order this man was going to be a bloated, white corpse.
    </p>
    <p>
     Right according to plan, in the midst of their conversation Endō got up to use the toilet. It was around 10:00 p.m. Saburō was careful to check the windows so no one saw him from outside and made sure not to make a sound, but he quickly opened the closet and searched for the medicine bottle inside the wicker trunk. He’d seen where it was hidden once before so it was no trouble to locate it. In spite of that his heart was pounding and a cold sweat ran down his sides. In point of fact stealing this bottle was the most dangerous phase of his plan. Endō could unexpectedly return at any time and there was no telling who might catch a glimpse of him. On that score this is what he planned to do. If he was caught in the act, or even if he wasn’t, if Endō discovered the medicine bottle was missing – by paying close attention he’d know when it happened, especially thanks to the peephole in the ceiling he had as his secret weapon – he would forego his murderous intentions. Then it would only be a stolen medicine bottle, not a capital crime.
    </p>
    <p>
     In any case, in the end he was able to get away clean with the medicine bottle, without anyone seeing him. As soon as Endō came back from the toilet he broke off their conversation and returned to his room. He pulled down the curtains on the window to completely shut out prying eyes, locked the door and sat down at his desk. His heart in his throat, he took the precious medicine bottle from his breast pocket and unflinchingly stared at it.
    </p>
    <p>
     MORPHINE (0.X g.)
    </p>
    <p>
     It was probably Endō’s writing. The letters were inscribed on a small label. Saburō had read a book on toxicology and knew a bit about morphine, but this was his first time to actually see it with his own eyes. He held the bottle in front of the electric light and looked inside. He could clearly see through the glass a tiny pinch of foggy white powder: about half of what was needed to fill a miniature measuring spoon. It was difficult to imagine this was all it took to kill a person.
    </p>
    <p>
     Naturally Saburō lacked an accurate scale to measure it, so he had no choice but to calculate the quantity trusting in what Endō had said. At the time Endō had been under the influence of alcohol, but Saburō didn’t discount it as nonsense. He knew the amount printed on the label was twice the lethal dosage, so he didn’t have the slightest suspicion it wouldn’t do the trick.
    </p>
    <p>
     He set the bottle down on the desk and placed it alongside the bottle of sugar and alcohol he’d prepared. Like a pharmacist he precisely and ardently began compounding the mixture. It looked as though the other boarders had all gone to bed, and a hush fell over the environs. Carefully he took a matchstick soaked in alcohol and let one drop after another fall into the bottle, his own breathing reverberating weirdly like the sighs of a devil. We can well imagine how this gratified Saburō’s perverse inclinations. Indeed, what he envisioned before his eyes was a bubbling cauldron of poison inside a gloom-shrouded cave and the figure of a fearsome, cackling old witch from the fairy tales of old.
    </p>
    <p>
     Yet, on the other hand, from then on an utterly unanticipated feeling akin to terror sprang up from a dark corner of his heart. What’s more, little by little it grew with the passing of time.
    </p>
    <p>
     Murder cannot be hid long; a man’s son may, but in the end truth will out.
    </p>
    <p>
     Those ominous words he recalled from someone in Shakespeare were seared on Saburō’s brain like a dazzling light. While he was absolutely convinced his plan would not fail, there was nothing he could do to stop his unease from steadily growing.
    </p>
    <p>
     Murdering another human being against whom he held no grudge simply for the pleasure of killing – was this the height of sanity or was he possessed by the devil or just plain crazy? What on earth was wrong with him that he didn’t see the wickedness in his own heart?
    </p>
    <p>
     Unaware how late it had become, he sat lost in thought for a long time before the bottle of compounded poison. Or rather, he considered abandoning his plan. It’s possible that he decided not to go through with it any number of times. But in the end he couldn’t resist the attraction of murder.
    </p>
    <p>
     However, as he sat there thinking over this and that, a certain fatal reality flashed in his mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     Suddenly Saburō let out a muffled giggle, as if unable to help himself, yet still mindful of the quietude of his surroundings.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You idiot,” he thought. “You good-for-nothing clown! You thought you were so clever devising this plan, huh, but your mind must’ve been in a stupor, unable to tell the difference between coincidence and a sure thing. What made you think just because Endō’s gaping mouth was right under the knothole once that it will be the next time, too? Nope, there’s no way it’s going to happen like that again.”
    </p>
    <p>
     In actuality it had been an exceedingly foolish mistake. The point of departure for this plan of his was nothing more than a grandiose delusion. How was it that it hadn’t occurred to him until now? It was a real mystery. I’m afraid it was proof of the real shortcomings in that would-be brilliant mind of his. In any event, when he came to this realization, on the one hand he felt a tremendous sense of disappointment, but at the same time, on the other hand he felt a strange sense of relief.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Thanks to this turn of events I won’t have to commit a horrific murder after all. Whew, that saves the day,” he said to himself. From the next day on, every time he went on an attic walk he opened the knothole to which he’d become so attached and didn’t forget to monitor Endō’s movements. In part he was worried and wanted to know whether Endō had noticed that the morphine had been stolen, but you couldn’t deny he was also desperate to see if Endō’s mouth accidentally fell directly under the knothole again. The truth is that each time he went walking the medicine bottle never left his pocket.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 6 —
    </p>
    <p>
     One night it happened – it was about ten days after Saburō began his attic walks: ten days in which no one took the least notice of the extraordinary pains he took many times a day to creep around overhead. The words diligence and care don’t come close to doing it justice. Once again Saburō prowled the ceiling above Endō’s room. With a feeling like he was drawing lots, not knowing if it would be good or ill fortune, he was hopeful that maybe, just maybe, today would be his lucky day. Saying a prayer to the gods he ventured a look through the knothole.
    </p>
    <p>
     Well, his eyes must have been deceiving him, for what did he see? Endō was sleeping in exactly the same pose as before, his snoring mouth directly below the knothole. Saburō repeatedly rubbed his eyes to double check, and withdrew the drawstring from his underpants to measure it by sight, but there was no mistake. The drawstring traveled in a straight line from the hole to Endō’s mouth. He could barely restrain himself from involuntarily letting out a cry. The elation that finally the moment had arrived blended with an unspeakable fear. He was taken by a weird excitement that cast a pallor over him in the gloom.
    </p>
    <p>
     He took the poison bottle from his pocket, his solitary hand trembling as he removed the stopper and used the drawstring to line up the bottle – oh, the feeling was indescribable! – and let ten drops fall. Drip, drip, drip... At last he’d done it. He swiftly closed his eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
     “He must’ve noticed, I’m sure he must’ve noticed. Any second now, oh, any second now, he’s going to scream bloody murder.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He was so certain of it he would have clapped both his hands over his ears if they had been free.
    </p>
    <p>
     But contrary to his expectations, there wasn’t a sound from Endō below. Saburō definitely saw the morphine solution drip into his mouth, there was no mistaking that. But what was he to make of the silence. He hesitantly opened his eyes, and peered into the knothole. No doubt Endō had just finished making inaudible sounds with his mouth and rubbing his lips with both hands. Or maybe he was still snoring away. As they say, things sometimes go better than we expect. Sleeping like a stone, Endō betrayed no sign of having imbibed the lethal solution.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō stared at the piteous face and unmoving body of his victim as if to devour it. It felt like an interminably long interval, at least two or three hours, that he waited there, but in fact it was something less than twenty minutes before Endō’s eyes opened with a start. Half-awake, he strangely looked around the room. As if overcome with vertigo he twisted his neck and rubbed his eyes, all the while babbling nonsense in a delirious state and gesticulating crazily. But then, finally, his head fell back onto the pillow and he lapsed back into a deep sleep.
    </p>
    <p>
     By and by the depth of his slumber weakened and his body ceased all movement. As though he were drunk, he turned bright red and beads of sweat broke out on his nose and forehead. A terrifying life-and-death struggle was now taking place inside his sleeping body. The thought made Saburō’s hair stand on end.
    </p>
    <p>
     When some time had passed, his flushed red face slowly cooled. Just when he thought it had gone white as a sheet it began to take on a bluish cast. Before he knew it, the snoring had stopped; somehow the pace of inhalations and exhalations dropped off... His chest ceased to move, and Saburō was sure it was the decisive moment, but a little later on, as if his body were remembering something, his lips quivered, and a dull respiration returned. This happened two or three more times and then it was over. He was no longer moving. A curious smile unlike any of this world played on his face, which had slid heavily from the pillow. He had, as they say, “become a Buddha.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Holding his breath and clenching his sweaty palms, Saburō stared at the body, and for the first time let out a sigh. He’d become a murderer. Still, you had to admit it was a peaceful way to die. His victim had not cried out once, nor had an anguished look crossed his face: he snored his way to death.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What the hell. Is murder such a piece of cake?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō somehow felt disappointed. In the world of his imagination there was no greater thrill than murder, but now that he looked at it, it was no different from ordinary, everyday things.
    </p>
    <p>
     “If murder is this easy,” he thought, “I’ll kill another bunch of people, goddamit.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Despite having thoughts like this, his addled mind was riveted by an indescribable terror. He felt nauseated by his own appearance staring at the corpse through the knothole. The muscles in his neck throbbed and his ears suddenly picked up the sound of someone slowly, ever so slowly, calling out his name. Without any conscious thought he took his eyes off the knothole and fumbled in the darkness, disoriented from having stared too long into the brightness of the hole. Yellow stars big and small danced one after another before his eyes. If he looked carefully he thought he could see Endō’s florid, misshapen lips behind them.
    </p>
    <p>
     In spite of it all his original plan had succeeded without a hitch. He dripped the remains of the lethal solution in the medicine bottle down the knothole – there were still several dozen drops left over – closed up the hole, and turned on the flashlight to check the attic on the off-chance any evidence had been left behind. When he was sure he hadn’t overlooked anything, he hastily fled back to his room using the beams to guide his way.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Whew, it’s finally over.”
    </p>
    <p>
     His mind and body oddly numb, Saburō couldn’t shake the feeling he’d forgotten something and he began to get dressed inside the closet. That was when he suddenly wondered about the drawstring he’d used as a measure. Could he possible have forgotten it up there? In a panic he checked around his waist. It was nowhere to be found. Quickly growing more panicked, he searched his whole body. He wondered how he could have lost something like that. Hadn’t he put it in his shirt pocket? Thankfully, and with great relief, he started to take the drawstring and flashlight from his pocket when he let out a gasp of surprise to find another object in his pocket... It was the small cork from the medicine bottle.
    </p>
    <p>
     Earlier, when he had let the lethal solution drip down into the room, he’d deliberately put the stopper in his pocket for safekeeping, knowing what a disaster is would be to lose it. He knew what he was doing at the time, but now it seemed he’d dropped the bottle without the stopper. It was a small thing, but if he let it go it could lead to the discovery of the real crime. He reassured himself that he all he had to do was to return to the attic and drop it down the knothole.
    </p>
    <p>
     That night, by the time Saburō lay down to rest – as a precaution he’d already decided against sleeping in the closet – it was three in the morning. Even then he was too nervous to fall asleep. If he could lose track of something like that stopper, there may have been other missteps along the way, too. He was beside himself with worry. He forced his disturbed mind to calm down and reviewed his behavior that night, retracing his steps one by one to see if he could figure out if he’d neglected anything. At least in his mind, however, he wouldn’t find anything.
    </p>
    <p>
     He stayed up until daybreak thinking about it until eventually he could hear footsteps in the corridor from the early risers amongst the boarders going to the washbasin. Then he suddenly got up and started making preparations for a trip. He was terrified waiting for Endō’s corpse to be discovered. He wondered what kind of attitude he should adopt when the news broke. It would be a disaster if he was suspected later as a result of any strange behavior. He decided it would safest to go away for a while, but it would be even more odd if he left without having any breakfast. “Oh, that’s right, I’m forgetting something,” he thought, and the next thing he knew he’d climbed back under the covers.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō spent the two hours or so until breakfast with his heart in his throat. He ate in a flurry, and fortunately he was out the door before anything happened. He left the boarding house without any particular destination in mind, but just wandered from neighborhood to neighborhood to kill time.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 7 —
    </p>
    <p>
     In the end his plan was a marvelous success. When he came back in the afternoon, Endō’s corpse had been carted away and the police’s investigation was long since over. Not a soul doubted Endō’s suicide, and the cops on the case had just gone through the motions of conducting an investigation before taking their leave.
    </p>
    <p>
     No one had any idea why Endō committed suicide, but judging from his usual behavior it was likely the result of being blinded by love – on this count everyone’s opinion was unanimous. In fact, it came out that a girl recently broke his heart. Now, for a man like him muttering, “Broken-hearted, I’m broken-hearted,” was just a kind of pet phrase without any larger significance, but without any other cause to fall back on, this was the one everyone settled on.
    </p>
    <p>
     Regardless of whether there was due cause, there was no doubt what took place was a suicide. The door and windows were locked from the inside and the medicine bottle had fallen at the side of his pillow. Since it was recognized as belonging to him, there were no grounds for misgivings. The idiotic notion that the lethal solution might have dripped from the ceiling never occurred to anyone.
    </p>
    <p>
     Still Saburō didn’t feel altogether at ease and for the entire day he was on tenterhooks. Eventually one day passed, then another, and he not only became more relaxed, but a newfound confidence in his abilities emerged.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What’s going on?” he thought. “As usual, I’m in control. Look, none of you living here under the same roof has a clue there’s a terrifying murderer in your midst.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He adopted this attitude thinking no one in the world knew of his hidden, unpunished crime. “The net of heaven’s justice may seem easy to evade, but it never fails to catch the wicked. That saying may be nothing more than an old bit of political propaganda, or a common superstition,” he thought. “The truth is, if you are really brilliant, you get away with any crime forever.” However, sometimes at night he imagined Endō’s dead face flickering in front of his eyes, and he felt queasy. Since that fateful night he’d put an end to his attic walks, but this was only a problem in his heart, and eventually he got over it. If the crime wasn’t discovered, really, wasn’t it enough by now?
    </p>
    <p>
     It happened exactly on the third day after Endō died. Saburō had finished eating dinner and was cleaning his teeth with a toothpick, humming a song, when there was a knock at the door. It was Akechi Kogorō, whom he hadn’t seen in a long time, coming to pay him a visit.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hey, old chap.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s been a while.”
    </p>
    <p>
     They casually greeted each other like old friends, but Saburō couldn’t help feeling a bit nervy at the amateur detective’s unexpected visit.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Someone at this boarding house took poison and died, right?”
    </p>
    <p>
     No sooner did he sit down than Akechi straightaway brought up the very topic Saburō wanted to avoid. He must have heard about the suicide from someone, and since Saburō fortuitously lived in the same place, his innate interest in detective work led him to Saburō’s door.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh, that. It was morphine. I was out when the big commotion occurred, so I’m not too clear on the details, but I hear it was an act of passion.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō didn’t want to let on that he was trying to avoid the subject, so he tried to put an interested look on his face when he answered.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What kind of fellow was he?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Akechi wasted no time asking another question. For some time they discussed Endō’s hereditary disposition, his death, and the method of committing suicide. Especially at first Saburō nervously answered Akechi’s questions, but as he grew more comfortable, he gradually became more cunning until he felt like mocking Akechi.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What do you make of it, old chap? Is it possibly a homicide? Well, there’s no grounds for it, but you know, sometimes what everyone believes is a suicide turns out, in fact, to be murder.”
    </p>
    <p>
     As he let the words slip from his mouth, Saburō sneered to himself, “Well, well, even the famous detective hasn’t got it all figured out.” The pleasure it gave him was exquisite.
    </p>
    <p>
     “We can’t rule that out, either. As a matter of fact, when I heard about this from a friend of mine, the cause of death sounded rather vague. I wonder, would it be possible to have a look at this fellow Endō’s room?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “It shouldn’t be a problem,” Saburō responded rather confidently. “A friend of Endō’s from the same hometown lives next door. Endō’s father asked him to take care of his things. If I tell him about you, I’m sure he’d be happy to show you.”
    </p>
    <p>
     At that they decided to go to Endō’s room. As they were walking down the corridor, Saburō was suddenly struck by an ominous premonition.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s truly a bizarre turn of events,” he thought, “when the murderer himself takes the detective on a tour of the crime scene.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He had to refrain from grinning at the thought of it. In his entire life, Saburō had never felt such a sense of exaltation. “Hey, boss!” he almost wanted to shout at himself, so perfectly did he inhabit the role of the villain.
    </p>
    <p>
     Endō’s friend – Kitamura by name – was the one who’d testified that Endō had been broken-hearted. He knew Akechi’s reputation very well, and gladly opened the room for him. Endō’s father had just came up from the country that very afternoon and taken care of the private memorial service held before the public funeral. All of Endō’s belongings were still there, unpacked, just as they had been.
    </p>
    <p>
     Endō’s unnatural death had been discovered after Kitamura left for work, so he did not know how it had looked at that time, but he gave a detailed explanation pieced together from conversations with the other boarders. Pretending to have no connection to the crime, Saburō, too, chimed in with the gossip he’d heard.
    </p>
    <p>
     Akechi listened to their explanations and looked around the room with the studied air of the amateur detective before abruptly taking an interest in the alarm clock on the desk. Whatever he was thinking, he gazed at it for a long time. Perhaps the eccentric design caught his eye.
    </p>
    <p>
     “This is an alarm clock, right?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Yes, that’s correct,” Kitamura volubly replied. “It was Endō’s prized possession. He was a punctual fellow, and to make sure it went off in the morning at six o’clock, he made sure to wind it every night. You know, the sound of the bell was loud enough to wake me up next door. The day he died was no different. That morning I heard the alarm go off as usual, and never in my wildest dreams did I imagine something like this could have happened.”
    </p>
    <p>
     When he heard this, Akechi twirled a strand of his long hair around his finger, which somehow gave him a look of intense concentration.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You’re certain the alarm rang that morning?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Yes, absolutely.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Did you mention this to this police?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “No... But why do you ask?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Why? Well, don’t you think it’s strange for a person who decides to commit suicide that night to wind his alarm clock for the next morning?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, when you put it that way, yes, it’s odd.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Kitamura’s carelessness had made him overlook this point until now. Indeed, he showed no sign of having clearly absorbed the meaning of Akechi’s words. But you couldn’t say his thinking was unreasonable. The door was locked, the medicine bottle was lying beside the dead man’s body and all the other details pointed toward the clear conclusion that Endō had taken his own life.
    </p>
    <p>
     When Saburō heard this exchange, he was so surprised he felt as though the ground had begun to crumble without warning beneath his feet. He berated himself for foolishly bringing Akechi there.
    </p>
    <p>
     Akechi proceeded to inspect the room in minute detail. Of course he did not forget to examine the ceiling. He tested each panel in the ceiling by tapping it to see if there was any evidence of where a person might have entered the room. To Saburō’s relief, even Akechi appeared unaware of his novel use of the knothole to drip down the lethal solution, but which was now plugged up. Once Akechi made sure none of the ceiling panels were loose, he did not pry any further.
    </p>
    <p>
     At last the day ended without any particular discoveries. After Akechi looked over Endō’s room, he returned to Saburō’s place, and they had a long chat about various topics before he took his leave. However, during their conversation, we can’t overlook the following exchange. At first glance it may seem extremely trivial, but in fact it is of the utmost significance to the conclusion of this story.
    </p>
    <p>
     Akechi took a cigarette out and lit it. Then out of the blue he made an unexpected observation.
    </p>
    <p>
     “All this time you haven’t had a single cigarette: did you quit?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō hadn’t realized it, but when pressed he saw that he had practically forgotten about his fondness for cigarettes in the past two or three days and hadn’t had a single smoke the whole time.
    </p>
    <p>
     “That’s strange. I completely gave it up. Even seeing you smoke like that doesn’t make me want to, even a little bit.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “How long has it been?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Now that I think of it, I haven’t had a smoke in two or three days. That’s right: I’m sure I bought this pack on Sunday, so it’s been three whole days without a single cigarette. I wonder what’s happened to me?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, so you’ve been this way ever since the day Endō died.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō was dumbfounded when he heard Akechi’s rejoinder. He couldn’t believe there was a causal relationship between Endō’s death and his having stopped smoking, so he simply laughed it off. But later, when he thought it over, he realized it wasn’t an insignificant funny story. Mysteriously, Saburō’s aversion to smoking persisted thereafter as well.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 8 —
    </p>
    <p>
     From that day onward, somehow Saburō couldn’t stop thinking about the alarm clock, and couldn’t sleep at night. Even if suicide was ruled out for Endō, there wasn’t a shred of evidence he was the true culprit. That should have been enough to reassure him, but because the person in the know was Akechi, he couldn’t set his mind at ease.
    </p>
    <p>
     However, half a month slipped by without incident. Akechi, about whom he’d been so worried, never once came back.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Whew, I think I’m finally out of the woods.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō finally gave himself permission to let his guard down. Occasionally he suffered from terrifying dreams, but for the most part the days passed pleasantly enough. What especially pleased him was that, strangely enough, ever since the murder various pastimes for which he hadn’t felt the least bit of enthusiasm had become entertaining again. That’s why he spent almost every day going out and playing around.
    </p>
    <p>
     One day when Saburō had been out until past dark, he came back to his room around ten o’clock. Deciding to go to sleep, he casually pulled open the sliding doors of the closet to take out the futon.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Wha—!” He suddenly let out a frightful cry and staggered two or three steps backwards.
    </p>
    <p>
     Was he dreaming? Or had he gone mad? There, in the closet, was Endō’s head, his hair disheveled, hanging upside down in the wan light from the ceiling.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō at once started to flee, but when he reached the door it occurred to him that perhaps in a flight of the imagination he’d mistaken something for Endō’s head, and fearfully made his way back for one more look. Cautiously peering into the closet, he realized that not only was it no mistake, but the head was laughing at him!
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō once more let out a scream, ran for the entrance and threw open the sliding screen doors, desperate to escape that very instant.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Gōda, my good fellow! Gōda!”
    </p>
    <p>
     The next thing he knew, the head was insistently calling Saburō’s name from inside the closet.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s me, it’s me, I tell you. There’s no need to run away.”
    </p>
    <p>
     It wasn’t Endō’s voice, but it was somehow familiar; and since it was another person’s voice, he stopped in his tracks and hesitantly turned back to look.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Sorry about that.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Just as Saburō himself had done so many times in the past, down from the closet ceiling alighted none other than Akechi Kogorō.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Pardon me for giving you a fright.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Dressed in Western attire, Akechi emerged from the closet with a smile playing on his lips. “I wanted to try imitating you for a change.”
    </p>
    <p>
     This was a terrifying reality: far more frightening, in fact, than any ghost. There was no doubt in his mind that one way or the other Akechi had figured it out.
    </p>
    <p>
     There are honestly no words to describe the feelings Saburō experienced at that moment. All his affairs spun around in his head like a windmill. He stood there with a blank look as though none of this had occurred to him and stared back at Akechi.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Without further ado, here’s the button to your shirt,” began Akechi in a crisp, businesslike manner. In his hand was a black button which he thrust before Saburō’s eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I asked around among the other boarders, but no-one was missing a button like this. Oh yes, it’s from that shirt of yours. I believe the second button down is missing?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō looked down at his chest in surprise, and sure enough, there was a button missing. He hadn’t paid one whit of attention when it fell off.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s a very peculiar shape for a shirt button, so it must be yours. Incidentally, where do you think I found it? In the attic. It was right above that fellow Endō’s room.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō still had not gotten his mind around the fact that if he had lost a button, why hadn’t he noticed it? Hadn’t he done a careful job looking around with the flashlight that night?
    </p>
    <p>
     “It was you, wasn’t it, who killed Endō?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Akechi grinned nonchalantly – his smile at a time like this made Saburō feel even worse – and closely observing Saburō’s confused eyes, which didn’t know which way to look, Akechi spoke these words as if to finish him off.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō knew he was done for. No matter how skillful Akechi’s detections were, they were still just guesses, which left him plenty of room to come up with his own defense. But when presented with this unanticipated piece of evidence, there was nothing he could do.
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō now had an expression on his face like a child on the verge of tears, and just stood there dumb as a statue for what seemed like an eternity. From time to time he could see things from the distant past rise up like a phantom before his dazed, filmy eyes like things that had happened when he was a schoolboy.
    </p>
    <p>
     Two hours later they hadn’t moved an inch from where they were standing, still facing one another in Saburō’s room.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Thanks for confessing the truth to me,” Akechi said at last. “Don’t worry, I have no intention of reporting you to the police. But just to be certain, tell me if my judgment was correct. As you know, my only interest is getting to the truth. The rest is immaterial. By the way, I don’t have one shred of proof you committed the crime. The button from your shirt?” Akechi burst out laughing. “That was my trick. I suspected you wouldn’t admit it without some kind of physical evidence. When I visited you the last time I noticed the second button on your shirt was missing, so I decided to use that to my advantage. This button? I found it at a button shop. Hardly anyone notices when a button comes off and you were in such a state of excitement I was quite sure it would do the job.
    </p>
    <p>
     “As you know, I started to suspect you were behind Endō’s suicide because of that alarm clock. Afterwards I paid a visit to the district chief of police, who gave me a detailed summary filed at the time by the investigating officer. I learned that the bottle of morphine had fallen into a cigarette box and spilled all over the rolling tobacco. I had heard Endō was extremely fastidious. Doesn’t it seem unnatural for him to take the trouble to prepare to die on the floor, but then drop the bottle in a tobacco box and spill its contents on top of that?
    </p>
    <p>
     “That’s when my suspicions deepened, but then I suddenly realized you’d stopped smoking the day Endō died. Isn’t it amazing how these two things coincidentally happened at the same time? I remembered how you used to enjoy play-acting at crime. You had an abnormal predilection for criminal behavior.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Since then I’ve often come to this boarding house, and unbeknownst to you, I searched Endō’s room. I figured out the only path the murderer could have taken was from the ceiling. I decided to spy on the boarders by going for what you call an attic walk. I frequently hunkered down for long periods of time, especially over your room. I clearly saw through the gaps how upset you were.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The further I investigated, the further the circumstances pointed to you. Unfortunately I don’t have any evidence. That’s when I concocted that ruse of mine.” He let out another peal of laughter. “If you’ll excuse me, I’d best be on my way. I doubt I’ll see you again. After all, I know you’ve decided to turn yourself in.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Saburō was too far gone to feel anything about this final trick of Akechi’s. His face betrayed no sign of recognition as Akechi took his leave.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What does it feel like,” he wondered, “to be sentenced to death?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Vague thoughts such as this were all that ran through his mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he dropped the medicine bottle down the knothole, he thought he hadn’t been able to see where it fell, but he had actually seen the spilt poison seep into the rolling tobacco. He had pushed the memory of it deep into his subconscious, and this caused him to be psychologically revolted by cigarettes.
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Air Raid Shelter
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Bōkūgō · 1956
    </p>
    <p>
     I. The Story of Ichikawa Seiichi
    </p>
    <p>
     Say, aren’t you tired? What’s the matter, you can’t fall asleep? Me neither. How about I tell you a story? I’m in the mood to recount a most unusual story.
    </p>
    <p>
     Tonight we talked about peace. Of course it’s the proper path to take. No one disputes it, the matter is as good as settled. But you know, the one time in my life that I felt most alive was during the war. No, I don’t mean that in the way people usually say it. I’m not talking about the sense of purpose that came from mobilizing the nation for war. Mine was a more unhealthy and anti-social thrill.
    </p>
    <p>
     Toward the end of the war the country was approaching total devastation. The aerial bombardments were fierce and Tokyo was reduced to a wasteland, but right there in the middle of hell on earth, I – now, what I’m about to say is just between you and me. If I had told anyone during the war, they would have killed me. Even today it’s likely to be frowned upon.
    </p>
    <p>
     Human beings are complex creatures. From the moment we’re born, we are endowed with certain anti-social traits. It is taboo to act on these desires. Yet taboos are essential for human beings. Or rather, I should say it is the very need for taboos in the first place that proves human beings have an innate tendency to rebel against society. The so-called instinct for crime is another name for it.
    </p>
    <p>
     There’s no question that fire is a great evil. But it’s also beautiful. They used to call the fires that burned through the city “the flowers of Edo.” 1 A majestic blaze evokes aesthetic feelings. The ecstasies of Nero watching Rome burn reflect the same psychology found to a greater or lesser extent in all of us. The practical value of flames licking at firewood as it heats the bath is qualitatively different from the feelings of beauty they inspire. If crackling firewood is impressive, then a house on fire must be more lovely still. A city block in flames is even more spectacular. And to witness a firestorm reduce an entire nation to dust and ashes – that would be the most breathtaking of all. Such is the transcendent beauty connected to death and destruction. I’m not exaggerating at all. Everyone holds feelings of this kind in their hearts.
    </p>
    <p>
     As I said before, it was close to the end of the war. There were days when we could go to work at the company, and others when we could not. The air raids came daily. There were no vehicles left, so if an emergency summons came, we had no choice but to go on foot. The constant wailing of sirens had us leaping out of bed in the middle of the night. We would put on gaiters and air raid headgear, and dash for the air raid shelters.
    </p>
    <p>
     Of course I cursed the war. But I can’t deny my fascination with what you might call the marvels of war. In the heat of the commotion, the wailing of sirens, booming of radios, and clanging of emergency bells throughout town exerted an extraordinary force over people. It had an amazing capacity to elevate one’s spirits.
    </p>
    <p>
     What gave me the greatest thrill, however, was the marvel of new weapons. They were the weapons of the enemy, and I hated them, but there is no question that they were awe-inspiring. The gigantic B-29 was a prime example. We did not yet know about the atomic bomb.
    </p>
    <p>
     As if in prelude to Tokyo burning, those silver giants would fly steadily in formation at dizzyingly high altitudes. When aircraft factories and the like were hit by bombs, we could feel the ground rumble as though an earthquake had struck, but we couldn’t see the bombs fall with our own eyes. All we saw were those gleaming silver wings far away in the sky.
    </p>
    <p>
     As the B-29s left a trail of exhaust high above across the clear blue sky, it was like watching tiny killifish gliding through the waters of a crystal-clear lake. Even though the B-29s were the enemy, it was a splendid sight to see. To the naked eye, they looked almost cute until you took into account their altitude and realized how enormous they really were. Nowadays, if you fly on a commercial jetliner over the ocean, even a steamship looks as tiny as a killifish. But there was something precious about the idea of killifish transferred up into the sky.
    </p>
    <p>
     One by one the B-29s would appear in formation from a distance. From wherever long-range artillery guns were stationed we would begin to hear a recurrent sound like peashooters being fired. The sight of the enemy and the sounds from our side seemed as harmless as the scenery in a performance of the noh play Atsumori.2
    </p>
    <p>
     Tracing the path of the B-29s, black balls of smoke from the anti-aircraft guns became scattered pockmarks across the vast blue sky. Something glittering like stars was also in pursuit of the enemy aircraft. It looked as though diamond beads were being pelted at those silver giants. Almost invisible to the naked eye, these were, in fact, our fighter planes. They were intent on flying a collision course with the B-29s. The silver wings of our tiny fighter jets caught the light of the sun and reflected back the sparkle of diamonds.
    </p>
    <p>
     I’m sure you also remember this. It was truly wondrous. In the moment when you forgot the reality of war and destruction, it was an exquisite prelude to a pageant in the sky. From the roof of the company, I sometimes watched these performances in the air with binoculars. Slowly the orderly silver formations would come into the round field of view of the binoculars. When they passed overhead, they suddenly loomed very large. I could even spy the white faces of the crew sitting inside like miniature dolls. The silver wings glowing in the rays of the sun were certainly beautiful. I could also make out our fighter planes on intercept courses, but they were as puny as tugboats beside a steamer.
    </p>
    <p>
     That night I trudged my way home from work. The trains only ran at intervals, and the rest of the time you had to walk. It was about 8:00 p.m. Stars glinted in the night sky. The city streets were pitch dark due to the blackout. All of us carried flashlights in our pockets just in case. They were never bright enough, and if you used one for too long the batteries would go dead. Consequently, small, hand-powered electric lights were a popular item. I’m sure you remember them. They were metal devices small enough to fit in one hand. You turned a lever to get one going, and then with a humming sound the generator kicked in and powered the lamp. When it was too dark to see the ground under your feet, you pulled it out and set it humming. It only offered a dim light, but since it didn’t need batteries, it was really quite useful.
    </p>
    <p>
     Shadowy figures walked in silence down the pitch-dark avenue. Everyone was in a hurry, eager to get home before the air raid sirens went off again. Maybe just for once we will get home today without the sirens going off – this was the only thought on everyone’s mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     At the time I was walking past Denzuin Temple. A frightening sound pierced the silence. Near and far, an ominous chorus of sirens began to whine in anguish. No matter how often you heard that sound, it still came as a shock every time. Indistinct figures ran in all directions. I was a poor runner and I hastened my stride, but before I could move, the black outline of a man from the civil defense corps ran by screaming, “Run for cover! Run for cover!”
    </p>
    <p>
     I could hear radios turned on everywhere I turned. It was common practice to turn up the volume as loud as possible even on household radios. The same message was repeated over and over again. The B-29 bombers were flying over the Izu Peninsula headed for Tokyo. They would here in the blink of an eye.
    </p>
    <p>
     I tried to hurry home in the direction of Ōtsuka station, but before I got there I could hear the far-off booming of artillery canons. Gradually the sound of artillery fire grew closer. The city was pitch black. Cautionary alarms gave way to emergency alarms. It was not yet 9:00 p.m., but silence swept through the streets as though it were the middle of the night. There wasn’t a soul around except me.
    </p>
    <p>
     Periodically I stopped to glance up at the sky. Of course I was terrified. But in another spirit, I exalted in the beauty of it.
    </p>
    <p>
     With a hiss, the artillery fire traced lines of light far up in the sky. Then with a patter they gloriously burst apart like fireworks. The enemy formations must have been near where the shots fell. It was thirty degrees from where I was standing. They were still a good distance away.
    </p>
    <p>
     Several extremely bright balls of lights hung suspended in midair, lighting the sky with the glare of arc lamps. They were the enemies’ flare bombs. They looked just like the annual fireworks over Ryōgoku. The black night sky glowed with the iridescence of jellyfish.
    </p>
    <p>
     The sounds and lights from the artillery guns grew steadily fiercer. They no longer occupied just one part of the sky. The sky on the opposite side was also rent with explosions. The enemy formation had split into two groups, and was attacking Tokyo on two fronts. One after another the planes switched positions, dropping explosives and incendiary bombs around Tokyo. That was the enemy’s strategy in those days. First, they created a wall of fire to encircle us. Then, when escape was impossible, they finished it off by carpet-bombing the central area. It was as effective as catching rats in a bag.
    </p>
    <p>
     After a long pause, the sky flickered with light in the distance. By this time I had reached the neighborhood civil defense station. Several people wearing protective helmets were waiting with firefighting equipment. They were crouched down behind sandbags, surveying the skies. I was allowed to hunker down with them.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s Yokohama – that bright spot on the horizon is Yokohama burning. The radio just announced it.”
    </p>
    <p>
     A civil defense corpsman ran over and reported this to us.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hmm, the sky over there is lit up, too. I wonder where we’ve been hit. Somewhere around Shibuya, I reckon.”
    </p>
    <p>
     No sooner had he spoken than the sky, already flickering with light, grew bright with flashes of light from the left and right.
    </p>
    <p>
     “That must be Senjū.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “There goes Itabashi.”
    </p>
    <p>
     As people called out with place names, we could see sparks dancing in the sky, and even, for the first time, actual flames. On all sides, Tokyo was as bright as Ginza under the noonday sun.
    </p>
    <p>
     Artillery fire was now bursting directly overhead. I could faintly make out the wings of the enemy planes glinting with the reflection of the flames below. More than usual, I was struck by the sheer size of the B-29. It was flying at low altitude.
    </p>
    <p>
     Countless flare bombs like iridescent jellyfish floated across the sky. They came and went in a flash, but while they fell their appearance was truly lovely. On the ground, fiery red ash swirled up to meet the shimmering jellyfish. It looked like a bluish-white beaded kimono pattern hemmed with a red brocade, and interlaced with the silver and gold threads of artillery fire.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh, it’s our boys. Our fighter planes hit one of ’em.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Suddenly a fire erupted in the sky. Covered in flames, the giant enemy aircraft plummeted to the ground. In the vicinity where the plane appeared to have crashed, the flames of an explosion rose into the air.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hurrah, they’ve done it! That’s the third plane they’ve shot down.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The members of the civil defense raised a cheer. Some even cried out “Banzai!”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hey, you. It’s too dangerous to stay here. You’d better head for an air raid shelter.”
    </p>
    <p>
     A corpsman gave me a hard shove on my shoulder with his hand. I had no choice but to stagger to my feet and start walking again.
    </p>
    <p>
     The festive lights in the sky and the accompanying tumult were reaching a feverish pitch. On the ground, too, the situation was getting out of hand. The fingers of fire were slowly encroaching, so the people who could no longer bear to remain cooped up in the air raid shelters were getting orders from civil defense corpsmen for a mass evacuation to an open space somewhere. The road was becoming crowded with pushcarts and other makeshift two-wheel carts laden with personal belongings.
    </p>
    <p>
     I rushed to join the milling throng. My wife was home alone. No doubt she’d fled by now. I was worried about her, but there was nothing I could do.
    </p>
    <p>
     The sound of explosions reverberated in all directions. Mixed with the howling of ground fires and shouting voices, it amounted to a near-deafening roar. Above the din I could make out a strange sound like an evening shower beating against the rooftops. I broke into a mad run. I knew the instant I heard it that it was the sound of incendiary bombs coming down. For all I knew they could be falling right over my head.
    </p>
    <p>
     Hearing cries behind me, I swung around and saw the entire avenue engulfed in a sea of flames. The incendiary bombs were small, eight-sided cylinders that were dropped in bundles, and scattered when they hit the ground. I was in grave danger, but I managed to escape without being hit. A middle-aged woman had fallen down in the middle of the fire and was writhing in agony. A brave civil defenseman entered the sea of flames and made his way to try and save her.
    </p>
    <p>
     I convinced myself that bombs would not fall in exactly the same place twice, so feeling momentarily safe, I gazed at the raging blaze. Despite the fact that the entire avenue was consumed by a fiery hurricane, I couldn’t help but think it was still beautiful. It was an unbelievably exquisite sight.
    </p>
    <p>
     Those incendiary bombs contained something akin to rags dipped in oil. As the bombs fell, the rags came out and fluttered through the air, clinging to the tubes like feathers. The tubes themselves plummeted from the sky straight as an arrow, and when they crashed into the ground, the oil remaining inside splattered, covering the surrounding area with flames. This meant they did not have very concentrated strength. If they hit a wooden building, it would catch on fire, but in the case of an asphalt road, the flames would slowly die down until they went out entirely. I watched this without moving until the flames were as small as the light of a firefly. The innumerable flickering of fireflies across the wide stretch of ground eventually dissipated, but their passage itself was as beautiful to watch as a show of fireworks.
    </p>
    <p>
     Countless little tongues of flame leapt out of the eight-sided shells and lazily tumbled out of the sky. I seem to recall that the background scenery for the traveling scene in the noh play Jisshukō 3 is composed entirely of candles lit up like St. Elmo’s fire, but with the black velvet of the heavens for a background, this felt hundreds of times more intense. No ordinary fireworks could approach such beauty. I stood in awe. I forgot that there was a deadly conflagration brewing around me and fixed my eyes on the sky, my mouth agape.
    </p>
    <p>
     Soon enough the fingers of flame were encroaching upon me. Bombs that exploded on contact spread the fire further. The streets glowed like sunset, and the faces of the people fleeing in all directions were illuminated a fiery red.
    </p>
    <p>
     Here and there were spots that seemed like a veritable inferno. All of Tokyo was shrouded by fire. Black clouds of smoke gathered from the burning earth to form a reddish fringe and billowed into the sky with fearsome speed. A gale-force wind raised a high-pitched sound as it whipped past. Swirling red and black smoke coalesced into a cyclone in the middle of the sky, tearing off roof tiles and making strips of tin sheeting fly through the air like bits of aluminum foil.
    </p>
    <p>
     The formation of B-29s swept overhead before splitting up to crisscross the sky. Our artillery guns had by now fallen silent, so the enemy planes could descend to extremely low altitudes, terrifying the civilians below as they selected their targets and unleashed incendiary bombs and smaller ordnance.
    </p>
    <p>
     I was frozen to the spot watching the ominous approach of one of those giant B-29s. The silver fuselage captured the sheen of fire from the ground and cast it back like a ruddy glow on the face of a drunken giant.
    </p>
    <p>
     For some reason, the appearance of the menacing enemy aircraft overhead brought to mind a tengu mask.4 A crimson tengu mask, large enough to blot out the sky, glared at me with golden eyeballs and plunged into a precipitous dive. As though in a nightmare, that dusky red face swooped in closer and closer.
    </p>
    <p>
     The crimson visage of the giant plane danced wildly almost right over the ground as it broke through the black smoke kicked up by the raging winds and the cyclone. It was as terrifying as Armageddon, but it also possessed an indescribable beauty. It was magnificent. Sublime.
    </p>
    <p>
     I could no longer stand in the street. Tiles, sheets of tin roofing and flames blew to and fro as logs, planks and other fragments of debris tumbled from the dusky red sky. Just when I thought I could catch my breath, a sheet of tin roofing smashed into my shoulder and sliced open a large gash on my jaw. Blood came gushing out. Still the whistling sound of falling incendiary bombs continued. The blow had knocked off my glasses, but the thought to stop and search for them never even crossed my mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     There was nothing to do but to take refuge somewhere. To cut my way through the raging winds I ran crossways. I had arrived at the intersection of the Tsuji district in Ōtsuka, and ran down a side street with a temple, heading further and further north. The houses lining both sides of the street had already begun to burn. A grand estate was at the end of the road. The front gate had been left open, and I scurried through it.
    </p>
    <p>
     The garden inside was almost as big as a public park. The trees were enormous. As the trees shook from the whirlwind and fiery ash rained down, I scrambled past and made my way inside. I later learned that the house belonged to a prominent industrialist named Sugimoto.
    </p>
    <p>
     The estate stood on the edge of a steep cliff. It was a cul-de-sac from the direction of Tsuji, while stretching before one’s eyes all the way into the distance was the avenue from Sugamo to Hikawa-chō. Such heights are sporadically found throughout Tokyo like fault lines, and this one was no exception. Yet it was my first time in this part of town, and I was so caught off guard that for a moment I wondered if it hadn’t been caused by the air raid.
    </p>
    <p>
     The cliff was located at the furthest end of the estate, but not too far away was the entrance to a large air raid shelter built of concrete. Later I was to discover that the residents had all evacuated, leaving the manor completely deserted. For the time being, however, I assumed the family was hiding in the air raid shelter. Although I was certain to be refused if I encountered them, I proceeded inside anyway.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was a sturdy air raid shelter with floors, walls and ceilings of solid concrete. I set my trusty hand-powered light going and hesitantly crept forward. From the entrance the passageway split in two, but even the main room was as desolate as an ancient ruin.
    </p>
    <p>
     The main room was a rectangular space of about ten square yards with wooden benches resting against the walls on two sides. I took a seat, but immediately stood back up. Try as I might, I couldn’t calm down. The rumblings from the sky and ground were audible even from inside the shelter. The booming of explosions in fact resonated more powerfully than when I was above ground, as the shelter itself trembled from the vibrations.
    </p>
    <p>
     From time to time, a bright red flash like lightning would carry deep into the shelter. When the light penetrated all the way into the interior, I noticed for the first time another person crouched down in a corner on one of the benches across from me. It was a woman.
    </p>
    <p>
     Sparking up my flashlight to cast a weak light, I called out to her. She stood right up and made her way over to me.
    </p>
    <p>
     She was dressed in old navy blue work trousers and an air raid hood of the same color. The face under the hood illuminated by my flashlight astonished me. She was very beautiful. If you asked me how beautiful she was, I wouldn’t know where to begin. She had a beauty I’d always dreamt of, and there were no words to describe it.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Do you live here?” I asked.
    </p>
    <p>
     “No, I just came running for shelter,” she replied.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The garden is large, so the fire won’t spread. It might be a good idea to stay here until morning,” I said, and we both sat down.
    </p>
    <p>
     I don’t remember what we talked about after that. Mostly we sat side by side in silence. We never asked each other’s names or mentioned where we lived.
    </p>
    <p>
     A roaring sound that was neither the sound of the storm or the fire reached our ears. There was also the booming sound of explosions and tremors in the ground. The red lightning repeatedly struck, and a burning smell was swept by the wind.
    </p>
    <p>
     I left the air raid shelter once to look outside. The manor was enveloped in flames, and the fire was moving from tree to tree with a crackling noise. It was as bright as day, and so hot I could feel the heat against my cheek. Looking up, I saw the sky was blanketed with the reddish-black color of blood. Fierce winds howled wildly. There was no sign of dead bodies in the garden. I ran as far as the gate, but I didn’t come across anyone at the front of the avenue, either. There were only swirling clouds of fire and smoke. I had no choice but to run back to the shelter.
    </p>
    <p>
     When I returned, the woman had reverted to the same motionless posture in the darkness as before.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh, I’m parched. It’s too bad there’s no water.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “I have some here,” the woman replied. As though she had been waiting for me to ask, she slid a canteen off her shoulder and fumbled through the darkness to hand it to me. The woman had prudently filled her canteen before she fled. I drank several cups’ worth. When I handed it back, she seemed to take a drink as well.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It must be hopeless by now,” she murmured despondently.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s okay. As long as we stay here, we’ll be safe.”
    </p>
    <p>
     At that moment I felt a powerful surge of desire. I suppose you will say there is no place for indulging in passion when the world is caught in the grips of anxiety and confusion, but the truth is quite the opposite. A boy I know once told me he was overwhelmed by powerful urges every time there was an air raid. He confessed that at such times he would lose himself in masturbation.
    </p>
    <p>
     But in my case, it was no trifling whim. It was love at first sight. The woman’s beauty was peerless. Otherworldly. It was the sort of unique, once in a lifetime opportunity to meet the Mona Lisa of my dreams. That mystical encounter drove me mad. I groped through the dark and clasped the woman’s hand. She did not refuse me. On the contrary, she gladly returned my embrace.
    </p>
    <p>
     The whole city of Tokyo was a great pyre, with black clouds of smoke and fiery ash strewn across the sky like a golden lacquer screen. Violent winds blew everywhere, sweeping all manner of debris from the ground up into cyclones. Meanwhile giant red fighter planes careened wildly, and showers of incendiary and explosive bombs raining down on us. Heaven and earth reverberated with thunderous cries, and there was no way of knowing what was to come in the next instant. Can you understand this sort of passion when your very existence could end at any moment? In my whole life, I never experienced that kind of joy, that vitality, that raison d’être. Never in my past, and impossible in my future – it was a singular occurrence.
    </p>
    <p>
     Heaven and earth were in chaos. The country was on the edge of collapse. The two of us were also out of our minds. We tore away all that constrained our bodies, and as the only two people left in the world we clasped to one another and moaned, went mad, wailed and cried. We were intoxicated by a sublime Eros.
    </p>
    <p>
     Had I fallen asleep? No, that couldn’t be it. I hadn’t slept. But before I knew it, night had turned to day. A wan light suffused with yellow smoke percolated through the shelter. The woman was nowhere to be found. Her belongings were also gone. No trace of her remained.
    </p>
    <p>
     But it wasn’t a dream. It couldn’t have just been a dream.
    </p>
    <p>
     I stumbled out of the shelter. The houses were destroyed by fire, and where they stood was now a blanket of embers, smoke and fire. The ground was so badly scorched it was like walking on a hot plate. I dodged my way around flames and smoke, picking a path through the clear patches. I continued in this fashion a long way until I reached my house. To my good fortune, the fire had spared it, and my wife was unharmed.
    </p>
    <p>
     The streets remained full of beggar-like men and women who had lost everything and were wandering dementedly with nowhere to go.
    </p>
    <p>
     At my house as well, there were three other couples, acquaintances of ours, who had been bombed out of their homes. For many days to come we had to make desperate efforts to buy food at the market.
    </p>
    <p>
     In spite of the hardships, I could not forget that night of passion. Almost every day I roamed the vicinity of the razed Sugimoto estate in Tsuji, asking questions to the former residents of the area as they searched for their valuables. I went around persistently inquiring if anyone had seen the young woman who took cover in the Sugimoto family’s concrete air raid shelter on the night of the bombardment.
    </p>
    <p>
     I will skip over the finer details, but with great effort I pursued a trail of gossip from one person to the next until at last I found an old woman. She was a fifty-something year old woman without family named Miyazono Tomi staying with friends in the Sensō district of Ikebukuro.
    </p>
    <p>
     When I visited her, I inundated her with questions. She had worked in the house of a company employee near the Sugimoto estate. She told me that the rest of the household fled goodness-knows-where on the night of the bombardment, leaving her behind. Then she remembered Mr. Sugimoto’s air raid shelter, and fled there by herself.
    </p>
    <p>
     Although Tomi had stayed there until morning, she curiously did not remember the young woman or me. I carefully questioned her to make certain she did not have the wrong shelter, but there was no other Sugimoto family in the area, and her description of the location and construction of the concrete shelter perfectly matched the one where we stayed. There were entrances on both sides of that shelter. Both led in a roundabout way to the main room. Tomi seemed not to have gone all the way into the main room, and took a different entrance from the one I did. She must have taken cover in the bend adjacent to the main room. Beyond that her responses to my queries were vague. That night was a shock to the nerves and it’s no surprise her memory wasn’t clear.
    </p>
    <p>
     As a result, I walked away with no more information about the young woman than when I started. It’s been ten years since that night. I kept looking for that woman as best I could, but not a single clue turned up. The mystery surrounding her only made me revere that one night we shared even more dearly. My life was tied to the Eros of that night.
    </p>
    <p>
     I was convinced there was no other woman whose face and body were as beautiful as hers. I formed a boundary around that night, and lost interest in all other women. That frenzied night of violent passions consumed my desires.
    </p>
    <p>
     It makes my body tremble to think of it. In the darkness of that cave surrounded by an inferno in the sky and on the ground, a beautiful face and body emerged to comfort me – a feverish embrace, a thousand nights of passion distilled into one. There’s a strange phrase I always keep close to my heart: “A dream of the five-hued aurora: a beauty to make you shiver.” That says it for me. Like the curtains of light that flutter through the northern skies, the flames of the air raid and the banquet of death captured the awe and beauty of the five-hued aurora. For a night of passion under those conditions, nothing short of the multicolored aurora could compare.
    </p>
    <p>
     II. Miyazono Tomi’s Story
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s been ages since I’ve been this tipsy. You seem like a hearty drinker, too.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hearing your titillating story brings back memories for me, too. But why would a gentleman such as yourself really want to hear the erotic stories of a wrinkled old lady? My, you are an unusual fellow, ha-ha-ha.
    </p>
    <p>
     “As I said before, I am just a poor old woman, quite alone in the world. My friends and family perished. After the war I somehow found my way to these hot springs up in the mountains. The owner of this establishment has treated me very kindly, and I get on well with the other maids, so I’ve decided this is as good a place as any to live out my days. But I’ll have you know I was in Tokyo through the war. I experienced those horrible air raids. Well, sir, it was during one of those air raids that truly remarkable thing happened.
    </p>
    <p>
     “How many years has it been? It was after the air raids which devastated Ueno and Asakusa, and left the Sumida river littered with bodies. It was the air raid that razed the city from Shinjuku, Ikebukuro and Sugamo all the way down to Koishikawa.
    </p>
    <p>
     “At the time, I worked as a maid in the home of Mr. Miyoshi, who was a company employee. His house burned to the ground, and I became separated from the rest of the household. I fled on my own to the air raid shelter in a grand estate nearby.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The estate was in the Tsuji district of Ōtsuka, not far from the garage at the end of the streetcar line. That estate was three or four blocks away from Tsuji at the top of a tall cliff. The people in the estate had all been evacuated, and the house was deserted.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It was a splendid air raid shelter made of concrete. I shook and trembled all alone in the dark.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Then a man entered the shelter shining a flashlight as he approached. Since he was holding the flashlight I couldn’t see his face, but as best I could tell he appeared to be a younger man in his thirties or so.
    </p>
    <p>
     “For a while he did not notice me, and just sat rigidly on the wooden bench before he became aware of my presence in the corner. Shining the flashlight, he motioned for me to come closer.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Naturally I was afraid to be alone, so I gladly sat down beside him. I had with me a canteen of water, so I gave it to him to drink. You won’t believe this, but we had scarcely exchanged more than one or two words when he brusquely clasped my hands in his!
    </p>
    <p>
     “There must have been some mistake. He seemed to think I was a young woman. The light was very weak, so he must not have been able to see my face very clearly. Also there was fire raging outside. A fearsome wind was howling. His nerves must also have been frayed. He started doing very erotic things. Ha-ha... oh dear, you’ve been such a good listener that I’ve gone and told you this little story of mine. But this is the first time I have ever told anyone. It was all so very embarrassing that I’ve never been able to tell a soul.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Eh, what happened next, you ask? I too lost all inhibition in the air raid shelter. I had every intention of becoming a young woman again, ha-ha-ha. We did many things. Now that I think of it, it’s a very foolish story. I did whatever he asked, stripping off my clothing and the rest.
    </p>
    <p>
     “This is awful. I may be a bit tipsy, but really, I mustn’t go any further, ha-ha-ha... Well, after doing this and that, the man finally collapsed. He seemed to have fallen fast asleep. I became embarrassed and hurriedly put my clothes back on, running away from the air raid shelter before dawn. We never got a good look at each other’s faces, nor did we ever learn each other’s names.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Eh, can that really be all, you ask? Actually, there was a reunion of sorts. In the air raid shelter I never saw my lover’s face and could only guess he was a young man. But several weeks later, as I was working as a maid in the kitchen of an acquaintance of mine in Ikebukuro, goodness knows how, but who should come looking for me, but that man!
    </p>
    <p>
     “At first I didn’t know it was him. It became apparent as we talked. There was a young woman in the air raid shelter. Since I was in the air raid shelter that same night, he took the trouble to find me to inquire about her. Had I seen the young woman? Was she possibly someone I knew? He was desperate for information.
    </p>
    <p>
     “His name was Ichikawa Seiichi. His clothes looked like everyone else’s in those days – khaki, like a soldier’s uniform. But you could see he was a fine man like a company employee. He was just past thirty and wore glasses, looking like the handsome men in my youth. Ha-ha-ha...
    </p>
    <p>
     “No sooner had I heard his story than I guessed what happened. Mr. Ichikawa was laboring under a terrible misunderstanding. He had no idea that his lover that night was an old woman like me. He was convinced she was a beautiful young woman. It was touching. He had pined after that woman and went to great lengths to locate her.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Whether it was a bad joke or an act of sheer folly, I didn’t know what to do. How could I tell him that the lover he thought was a young woman was actually me? Awkwardly, I lied. He didn’t question a single word. He hardly even noticed how upset I was.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Tears welled up in the eyes of that handsome Mr. Ichikawa. It made me feel strange to see the longing he had for that beautiful young woman. It was a foolish, pitiful emotion I can’t explain.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Wasn’t it an unbelievable stroke of fortune to be united for a night with that handsome young man, you ask? At my age, it made for a most unusual situation, exciting yet shameful. What a great shock it was to learn at last that my lover was a handsome fellow. Of course, not having seen his face before, I was twice as grateful, hee-hee!”
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      Doctor Mera’s Mysterious Crimes
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Mera hakase no fushigina hanzai · 1932
    </p>
    <p>
     In order to develop ideas for detective novels I often travel to different places, but when I am in Tokyo, I always return to the same spots – Asakusa Park and the Flower Palace, the Ueno Museum and Zoo, the steam ferry over the Sumida River, and the Ryōgoku Kokugikan (I’m drawn to its round roof, which reminds me of the former Panorama Building).1 In fact I just returned home from attending a “Ghost Convention” at the Kokugikan. For old times’ sake I meandered through the labyrinth of the convention, indulging in fond memories of childhood.
    </p>
    <p>
     In any event, some time ago the pressure to produce a manuscript became so intense that I couldn’t bear to remain cooped up in the house any longer. For about a week I aimlessly roamed the streets of Tokyo. Then, one day I unexpectedly met a strange character at the Ueno Zoo. That is where this story begins.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was already evening and the zoo was near closing time. Most of the sightseers had already left, and a deep tranquility settled over the grounds.
    </p>
    <p>
     The same thing always happens in the theaters and yose 2 halls. Their entrances inevitably become crowded with people taking their leave well before the final curtain draws to a close. I’ve never cared much for this tendency on the part of the Edokko.3
    </p>
    <p>
     It was no different that day at the zoo. For some reason, Tokyo people are always in a hurry to get home. It’s not like they are going to be locked in, but a place empties out until there isn’t a single person left.
    </p>
    <p>
     I was standing absent-mindedly in front of the monkey cages, enjoying the abnormal quiet that had replaced the customary bustle.
    </p>
    <p>
     The monkeys also looked forlorn without anyone to play with them.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was very peaceful for a while and then suddenly I felt the presence of another person behind me.
    </p>
    <p>
     A young man with long hair and a pale complexion was standing there. He wore shapeless clothes and bore the appearance of a so-called “lumpen,” 4 but his expression was lively. He began to tease the monkeys in the cage.
    </p>
    <p>
     He seemed to be a frequent visitor to the zoo, as he was quite adept at sporting with the monkeys. He made them do all kinds of tricks for a treat. When he tired of his games, he would finally toss them the treat. His antics were extremely amusing, and I watched with a grin on my face.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What puzzles me about monkeys is, why do they imitate what they see people do?” The young man asked me out of the blue. At that moment he was tossing a tangerine peel up into the air and catching it. A monkey in the cage was doing exactly the same thing, throwing the peel of a tangerine and then catching it.
    </p>
    <p>
     I laughed and he spoke again.
    </p>
    <p>
     “When you think about it, mimicry is a scary business. That God gave monkeys that instinct, I mean.”
    </p>
    <p>
     I decided this fellow must be a lumpen philosopher.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s strange to see a monkey imitate, but there’s nothing unusual about human imitation. God gave human beings lots of the same instincts as monkeys. That’s scary when you think about it. Do you know the story about the traveler who met a big monkey in the mountains?”
    </p>
    <p>
     The man seemed to like telling stories, and gradually became more talkative. I am shy and don’t particularly like being spoken to by strangers, but I was curious about this fellow. I guess I was attracted by his pale complexion and tousled hair. Or maybe it was his philosophic way of talking which struck a chord with me.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I never heard that one before. Did the big monkey do something?”
    </p>
    <p>
     I indicated for him to continue his story.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It was deep in the mountains far away from any human settlement, and a man traveling alone happened upon a big monkey. Before he could react, the monkey stole his sword: pulled the sword out of its scabbard and waved it around just for the hell of it. The traveler was a townsman, not a samurai, so when his blade was taken away he had no other. His life was in danger.”
    </p>
    <p>
     I greatly enjoyed the unique scene of standing before the monkey cage at sunset, listening to the pale man’s weird tale. “Yes, I see,” I nodded in appreciation.
    </p>
    <p>
     “He tried to get his sword back, but the monkey was skillful at climbing trees, and put itself beyond his reach. However, the traveler had his wits about him, and devised an ingenious plan. He picked up a branch that had fallen from a tree nearby and, fashioning it in the likeness of a sword, tried out different moves. To the monkey’s misfortune, God gave monkeys the instinct to imitate human beings and it began to mimic every gesture the traveler made. Before the monkey knew it, it had committed suicide. You see, the traveler waited until he’d caught the monkey’s interest, and then made a display of hacking at his neck with the tree branch. The monkey copied this by stabbing itself in the throat with the drawn blade. It couldn’t stop. Blood spilled out, but as though it couldn’t believe that was its own blood, it kept slicing its throat until it expired. In the end the man not only got his sword back, he also won himself a big monkey for a souvenir. That’s the story!”
    </p>
    <p>
     The man laughed as he finished his tale, but it was a strangely unsettling laugh.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You don’t say.”
    </p>
    <p>
     I laughed back, the man abruptly became serious.
    </p>
    <p>
     “No, it’s true. The thing about monkeys is they have this sad and fearsome destiny. You want me to prove it?”
    </p>
    <p>
     He threw a branch that had fallen nearby to one of the monkeys. He faked cutting his own throat with the walking-stick he had at his side.
    </p>
    <p>
     It was unbelievable what happened next. The young man was such a genius at manipulation that the monkey actually picked up the branch and started jabbing at its own neck.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What did I tell you, if that branch was a real sword, that little monkey would be on his way to heaven by now.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The expansive grounds of the park were utterly deserted. The darkness of night had already cast deep shadowy circles under the leafy trees. I shivered despite myself. I imagined that the pale-faced youth standing before me was no ordinary man, but a sorcerer.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Now do you understand the frightfulness of mimicry? It is the same with human beings. Man can’t avoid imitation, either. We, too, are born with a sad and fearsome destiny. Didn’t the sociologist Tarde pretty much sum up human life with the word ‘imitation?’ ” 5
    </p>
    <p>
     I can no longer remember everything he said, but the young man proceeded to explain the horrors of “imitation.” Then he told me about his abnormal fear of mirrors.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Isn’t it a bit scary when you stare too long into a mirror? I can’t think of anything worse. Why? Because there is another version of yourself in the mirror, which imitates you just like a monkey.”
    </p>
    <p>
     I recall him saying something to this effect.
    </p>
    <p>
     It came time for the zoo to close its gates, and a zookeeper escorted us out. We walked out, but we didn’t say our goodbyes just yet. In the inky darkness under the trees in the park we walked side by side and continued our conversation.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I know who you are. You’re Mr. Edogawa, aren’t you? The one who writes detective novels?”
    </p>
    <p>
     We were walking under the dark trees when he unexpectedly confronted me like this. I was caught off guard again. He was a strange, disturbing individual. Yet, at the same time it increased my interest in him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I love your work. To be honest, though, I haven’t enjoyed your more recent efforts. Maybe it was because your earlier works were harder to come by, but I really cherished reading them.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He was very outspoken. This, too, impressed me.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh look, the moon’s come out.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The young man jumped from one subject to the next in the blink of an eye. It made me half wonder if he wasn’t a bit mad.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Today is the fourteenth, isn’t it? It’s nearly a full moon tonight. Now that’s what I call brilliant moonlight. The light of the moon is really mysterious. I read somewhere the light of the moon has the power to bewitch, and it’s true. The same thing appears totally different by night than it does by day, right? Even your face has changed. You almost look like a different person now than you did just a moment ago standing in front of the monkey cage.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Seeing him stare intently at my face as he said it really did make me feel queer. With both his eyes lined with dark rings and his lips hidden in shadow, the young man’s face took on a frightful appearance of its own.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The moon is a kind of mirror. The ‘moon-in-the-water,’ 6 and the saying ‘the moon is bright as a mirror’ are proof that there is something to it. Go ahead and see for yourself.”
    </p>
    <p>
     His gaze pointed toward the smoky silver surface of the Shinobazu Pond, which looked twice as big as it did in the daytime.
    </p>
    <p>
     “If what you see by day is real, then don’t you think what is illuminated at night by the light of the moon must be an image of that daytime reality, reflected by the mirror of the moon?”
    </p>
    <p>
     With his shapeless figure and ghost-white face, the young man looked like a reflection in a mirror himself.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I bet you’re gathering material for a novel. I have a story that would be perfect for you. It’s a true story based on my own experiences. Maybe you’d be interested in hearing it. Do you want me to tell it to you?”
    </p>
    <p>
     I was, in fact, gathering material for a novel. But aside from that, I was eager to hear this strange fellow’s story. From what I had already heard, I couldn’t imagine it would be just another run-of-the-mill yarn. “By all means, let’s hear it. Would you care to join me for a bite to eat somewhere? Let’s find a quiet place where we can talk undisturbed.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He shook his head and replied, “I don’t want to refuse your kind offer. I never stand on ceremony. It’s just that my story isn’t suited to bright electric lights. If you don’t mind, I’d prefer to recount it right here. We can bask in the bewitching moonlight on this sitting stone and gaze out at Shinobazu Pond, reflected by that giant mirror above us. Besides, my story isn’t long in the telling.”
    </p>
    <p>
     I was happy to oblige his request. I sat down beside him on a flat rock under the trees. There, perched on a hill overlooking the pond, I listened to his extraordinary tale.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 2 —
    </p>
    <p>
     “As you know, there’s a novel by Doyle called The Valley of Fear.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The young man wasted no time launching into his story.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It was a canyon carved out between two steep mountains somewhere. But the valley of fear doesn’t have to be just a natural gorge. Right here in the middle of Tokyo, even in Marunouchi, you can find a valley of fear.
    </p>
    <p>
     “A narrow street hemmed in between two towering buildings is far steeper and more perilous than any ordinary canyon. A haunted valley made by civilization, a canyon built by science. From the street at the bottom of the canyon, the six or seven story concrete buildings on both sides swallow up any hope of a view. Like natural cliffs, they have no greenery, no seasonal flowers, no protrusions to catch the eye; just two giant slabs of gray cleaved in half by an ax. The sky above is narrow as a belt. For only a few precious minutes a day they receive a decent bit of light from the sun and moon. From the bottom the noonday sun is no closer than a distant star. A weird, chilly wind is constantly whipping about.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Before the great earthquake, I lived in one of those canyons. The front entrance of the building faced S—— Avenue in the Marunouchi. It was bright and lively. But when you went around back, you came right up against another building. The buildings presented one another with a bleak expanse of concrete: cliffs with windows facing one another across an alley scarcely two meters across. When I talk about a haunted valley in the city, this is exactly what I have in mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The buildings had a few rooms which served as apartments, but for the most part they were only used in the daytime, as offices, and people would go home after dark. Bustling by day, at night they were the picture of solitude. In the heart of the Marunouchi, it was as alarming as the hoot of an owl. It felt like I was lost deep in the mountains. After nightfall, the alley behind the building truly became a canyon.
    </p>
    <p>
     “During the day I worked at the front desk, and at night I slept in a room in the basement. There were four or five of us who lived there, but I liked art, so whenever I had a free moment I would paint my canvases in seclusion. Naturally there were many days when I didn’t even speak to my companions.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The incident I am going to tell you about occurred in the canyon around back, so I had better explain a few things. It was truly incredible how the buildings matched. What I mean is that they mirrored each other perfectly. I often wonder if the architect who designed them wasn’t playing at some kind of mischief.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Both buildings were of roughly the same height, five stories apiece. While the color and ornamentation on the front and sides were quite different, the sides facing one another in the canyon were exactly alike. From the shape of the roof to their gray color and the arrangement of four windows per floor, they were as identical as photographs. It’s possible that even the cracks and flaws in the concrete were the same.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The rooms looking out onto the canyon scarcely received more than a few minutes of sunlight a day – well, yes, that’s a bit of an exaggeration; but it didn’t amount to much at all. Needless to say, no one wanted to use those rooms, especially the most inconvenient ones on the fifth floor, which always remained empty. In my free time I would frequently sneak up there with my canvases and brushes. Sure enough, whenever I looked out the window, the building across the way looked just like a photograph of the one I was in. They so resembled one another that it gave you the creeps. There was a tangible sense of foreboding that a terrible incident was waiting to happen.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, it wasn’t long before my premonitions proved right on the mark. There was a suicide by hanging from the northernmost window on the fifth floor. And then, before we knew it, there were two more deaths.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The first victim was a middle-aged spice broker. From the moment he walked in to rent the office, he came across as an impressive character. He may have been a tradesman, but he sure didn’t look like one. He was dark and brooding, the type that is always thinking of something. When I heard about his suicide, I wondered if he had rented one of the sunless rooms in back that faced the canyon . Just as I suspected, the one he chose, the northernmost apartment on the fifth floor, was the furthest from human contact (it might sound strange to use an expression like this in a building, but the apartment had that kind of feeling about it). It was also the darkest one, and so naturally the rent was the cheapest for those two adjoining rooms.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I believe he was only there for about a week after he moved in. It wasn’t long at all.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The spice broker was a bachelor, so he brought in a shoddy-looking bed and used the inner room as a bedroom. At night he would sleep alone there – a desolate cave in the steep cliffs overlooking a ghost valley. Then, on a night of bright moonlight, he flung a rope out the window onto the small crossbar of a telephone pole, and committed suicide by hanging himself.
    </p>
    <p>
     “In the morning a laborer assigned to sweep the streets in the vicinity discovered the hanged man swinging from the cliffs high overhead, and caused a great stir.
    </p>
    <p>
     “In the end we never learned why the man committed suicide. His business wasn’t doing particularly badly, and he didn’t have any worries about debt. On top of that he was a bachelor, so it couldn’t have been prompted by a domestic problem. Nor was there any indication that he’d done it in a fit of passion, say, committing suicide because of a broken heart.
    </p>
    <p>
     “‘He was possessed by the devil. From the moment he arrived, he was strangely withdrawn. I knew there was something wrong with him.’ That’s the sort of conclusion people drew. When it happened the first time, they could dismiss it like that. But soon another renter came along who took the same room. He never slept there, but one day he said he needed to stay overnight to get some work done. We figured he must have shut himself up in that room for the night, because the next morning there was bedlam when another swinging body was discovered. He died the exact same way, suicide by hanging.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Of course no one had the slightest idea about the cause. Unlike the spice broker, the second man had an exceedingly sunny disposition, and even his choice of that gloomy room was simply due to the fact that the rent was low.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The window that opened onto the valley of fear was cursed. A rumor like a ghost story spread in whispers that whoever entered that room would start to crave a solitary death for no reason at all.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The third victim was no ordinary renter. One of the office workers in the building was a brave fellow who announced he was going to give it a try. He was as adventurous as someone who explores a haunted house.”
    </p>
    <p>
     By this point in his narration, I had grown a trifle weary of the young man’s story and interrupted him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “So this brave fellow also hung himself in the same fashion?”
    </p>
    <p>
     The young man looked at me, slightly surprised.
    </p>
    <p>
     “That’s right,” he replied ominously.
    </p>
    <p>
     “After one man hangs himself, countless others hang themselves in the same place. In other words, this horror boils down to a copycat instinct?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ah, now I see why you’re impatient. That’s not it at all. I wouldn’t waste your time with such a dull story.”
    </p>
    <p>
     With a look of relief, the young man corrected my misguided assumption.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s not one of those dime-a-dozen stories where people keep dying at an ‘accursed’ train crossing.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Forgive my rudeness. Please continue.”
    </p>
    <p>
     I politely apologized for misunderstanding him.
    </p>
    <p>
     — 3 —
    </p>
    <p>
     “The office worker spent three nights alone in that demonic room. But nothing happened. He was beaming with self-satisfaction at having beaten the devil. But I set him straight. ‘All three nights you slept there were overcast, right? The moon didn’t come out, did it?’”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh-ho, was the moon somehow related to those suicides?” I interjected, a bit excited.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Yes, it was. I’d realized that the spice broker and the renter after him died on nights when the moon was clear. If the moon hadn’t come out, the suicides wouldn’t have happened. For only a few minutes a night, ghostly silver-white light flooded the narrow canyon. That’s when the suicides occurred. It was the witchcraft of moonlight. I was convinced of it.”
    </p>
    <p>
     As the young man spoke, he raised his wan face and gazed down at the Shinobazu Pond bathed in moonlight.
    </p>
    <p>
     Reflected in what the young man had called a giant mirror was the scenery surrounding the pond, silver-white and ethereal.
    </p>
    <p>
     “This is what I am talking about: the bewitching power of moonlight. Moonlight incites dark passions like a cold flame, making hearts burn with the intensity of phosphorus. Mysterious passions that give rise, for example, to ‘songs to the moon.’ You don’t have to be a poet to learn about the transience of life from the moon. If you’ll forgive the expression ‘artistic madness,’ isn’t that how the moon influences us?”
    </p>
    <p>
     I was slowly becoming annoyed by the young man’s manner of storytelling.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Are you suggesting that moonlight was responsible for those men’s deaths?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “That’s right. Half the blame goes to the moonlight. But moonlight alone doesn’t make people take their own lives. If that were so, don’t you think the two of us soaking up the radiance of the moon would be slipping nooses around our necks by now?”
    </p>
    <p>
     The young man smirked, his face pale as a reflection in a mirror. I couldn’t help feeling like a child listening to a bone-chilling ghost story.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The brave office worker slept in that accursed room for a fourth night. Unfortunately, the moon was out that night.
    </p>
    <p>
     “In the middle of the night I suddenly awoke in my bed in the basement and saw the light of the moon streaming in through the tall window above. I don’t know why, but unthinkingly I got up. Still in my pajamas, I raced up the narrow staircase next to the elevator. You can’t imagine the incredible solitude in that building that replaced the activity of the daylight hours. It was a massive graveyard with hundreds of tiny rooms. Take my word for it, it was like the catacombs in Rome. It wasn’t pitch-black –  there were electric lights at key places in the corridors – but those faint lights made it even scarier.
    </p>
    <p>
     “When at last I reached the dreaded room on the fifth floor, I felt afraid for myself wandering through a deserted building like a sleepwalker. I banged madly on the door and called out the name of the office worker.
    </p>
    <p>
     “There was no answer within. My own voice merely echoed down the corridor until it disappeared into the solitude.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I turned the knob and the door readily swung open. On a table in the corner was an electric desk lamp with a green shade that despondently illuminated the room. By its light I could see there was no one inside. The bed was empty. And then I saw that the dreaded window was wide open.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Outside the window, the building across the way caught the last fleeting rays of faint silvery light from the middle of the fifth floor to the roof. Directly opposite this window was another of the exact same shape, and it, too, had been flung open to form a gaping black hole. The two were identical in every way. Under the mysterious luminosity of the moon, they looked even more alike.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I was spooked by my fearful premonitions, but I had to make certain, so I poked my head out the window. I didn’t immediately have the courage to look in the direction of the telephone pole, so first I glanced at the distant bottom of the canyon. The moonlight only shone upon the uppermost portions of the building across the way. The gap created by the buildings was pitch-black, which made it appear that it plunged to bottomless depths.
    </p>
    <p>
     “And then I forcefully twisted my neck all the way to the right. The side of the building was lost in shadows, but thanks to the moonlight reflected from the building across the way I could make out a shape of some kind there. Sure enough, as I directed my gaze that way, what I had anticipated came into view. The legs of a man in black clothes. Wrists dangling limply. Upper body stretched to the limit. A tightly constricted neck. His head drooped until his neck was almost bent in two. The fearless office worker had been caught in the witchcraft of the moon and hung himself from the crossbar of the telephone pole.
    </p>
    <p>
     “In a panic I yanked my head back in from the window. I suppose I was worried that I, too, would be caught in the same spell. But that’s when I noticed it. No sooner had I begun to pull my head out of the window, what did I spy through the jet-black square hole of the open window across the way but a man’s face staring back! Only the face was immersed in the moonlight, its features standing out in sharp profile. Especially by the light of the moon, it looked yellow and withered, a deformed and despicable face. And I’ll be damned if he wasn’t looking in my direction the whole time!
    </p>
    <p>
     “In that instant, I stood back and shrunk away from the window. It was altogether too astonishing. I should have explained earlier, but a lawsuit had been filed against the owner of the building across the way by the bank that served as the guarantor, with the result that the building was completely vacant. Not a soul was living there.
    </p>
    <p>
     “But someone was in that vacant building in the dead of night. Not only that, he had a yellow face like an evil spirit that leered from the window directly across from the dreaded window where the hangings took place. There was nothing ordinary about it. Had I seen a ghost? And was that yellow-faced man with his witchcraft plotting still more hangings?
    </p>
    <p>
     I went cold with fear, but I didn’t take my eyes off that yellow face across the way. On closer inspection, I could make out he was a scrawny, small-boned man in his fifties. He continued looking in my direction, only to finally laugh broadly as if to signify something. He then abruptly vanished into the darkness of the window. His cackling visage was revolting to behold. When he smiled, his entire face crumpled up, leaving only a mouth stretched fit to bursting.”
    </p>
    <p>
     — 4 —
    </p>
    <p>
     “The next day I asked my co-workers and the janitors about the building across the canyon, but since it was completely vacant, not even a night watchman had been there. Had it been a figment of my imagination?
    </p>
    <p>
     “The police opened tentative investigations into the inexplicable multiple suicides: now three in a row with no rationale whatsoever. However, since there wasn’t a shadow of a doubt that these were suicides, the investigations went no further. But I wasn’t afraid to believe in an unconventional cause. I wasn’t satisfied with the absurd explanation, which held that anyone who slept in that room went crazy. That yellow-faced man was the mastermind. He murdered all three. On each night that a hanging occurred, he was peeping through the identical window directly across the canyon. And he had laughed knowingly. There was something terrible hidden behind that laugh. I was positive of it.
    </p>
    <p>
     “A week went by uneventfully, and then I made an astonishing discovery.
    </p>
    <p>
     “One day as I was returning from an errand, I crossed the wide avenue where the entrance of the vacant building was located. Immediately adjacent to it was one of the Mitsubishi buildings, a modest, old-fashioned brick building with tenement-like rental offices. A gentleman bounding lightly up the stone staircase caught my attention.
    </p>
    <p>
     “He was a delicate-boned older gentleman, with a slight stoop, dressed in a morning coat. From his profile I could swear I’d seen him somewhere before, so I paused to get a better look. He stopped at the entrance to an office, dusted off his shoes and suddenly glanced back in my direction. Shock stopped me right in my tracks. The smartly dressed gentleman was a dead ringer for the yellow-faced monster I’d seen leering through the window of the vacant building a few nights earlier.
    </p>
    <p>
     “After he disappeared into the office, I noticed a sign written in gold letters by the door: Mera Ophthalmology, Dr. Mera Ryōsai.7 I caught hold of a passing messenger boy and confirmed that the man who had just gone inside was Dr. Mera himself.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It was beyond comprehension that a medical doctor would sneak into a vacant building in the middle of night, and, what’s more, laugh aloud at the sight of a hanged man. I couldn’t hold back a powerful burst of curiosity. Still, I tried not to let it show as I set about asking as many people as I could about Mera Ryōsai’s past and daily activities.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Despite his advanced age, Dr. Mera was not very well known, nor did he seem particularly adept at making money, considering that he was working out of a rented office. He was extremely unusual and the way he treated patients was disagreeably rough. Sometimes he even seemed to be touched with madness. He had neither a wife nor children, but had been a bachelor his whole life. His office doubled as his apartment. That’s how I learned that he slept there at night. In addition, I heard rumors he was an extremely avid reader, with a sizable collection of books outside his field of expertise, such as long-forgotten works of philosophy, psychology and criminology.
    </p>
    <p>
     “ ‘In the private quarters connected to the examination room there’s a glass case filled with fake eyes of every conceivable shape. Hundreds of glass eyes staring back at you. Fake or not, they really give you the creeps. But never mind that – what’s an ophthalmologist doing with a bunch of skeletons and life-sized mannequins?’ That’s what a businessman in my building told me about the hair-raising experience of being examined by Dr. Mera.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I never failed to observe the doctor’s comings and goings whenever I could. I also spent some time watching the fifth floor window of the empty building, but there was nothing in particular to see. That yellow face never once materialized.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Any way you looked at it, Dr. Mera was suspicious. The yellow face I saw glaring back from the window across the way that night was undeniably his. But the question was, how was he involved? If those three hangings weren’t suicides, then even supposing Dr. Mera somehow planned those murders, how and why did he pull them off? That was the sticking point. Still, I couldn’t help but remain convinced he was the killer.
    </p>
    <p>
     “For days it obsessed me. Once I scaled the brick fence behind the doctor’s office, went to the window and stole a peep at the doctor’s private room. Sure enough, the skeletons, mannequin and glass eye case were there.
    </p>
    <p>
     “One thing I couldn’t figure out was how someone in the building on the other side of the canyon could freely affect a person in my building. Hypnosis? No, that was impossible. I’d heard that a life-threatening order like a command to die wouldn’t work.
    </p>
    <p>
     “About half a year passed after the last hanging when at last an opportunity arose for me to test my suspicions. Someone rented the cursed room. The renter was a man from Osaka, so he hadn’t the faintest inkling about the ghastly rumors. From the perspective of the building’s managers, the extra money would increase profits, so they kept their mouths shut and rented it to him. I guess no one was ready to believe that now, six months later, the same thing would happen again.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I for one was solidly convinced that the man was going to hang himself. Somehow it was up to me to prevent it from happening.
    </p>
    <p>
     “From that day I neglected my work and devoted myself to observing Dr. Mera’s comings and goings. At long last my work paid off. I uncovered the doctor’s secret.”
    </p>
    <p>
     — 5 —
    </p>
    <p>
     “On the evening of the third night after the man from Osaka moved in, I watched the doctor’s office and spotted him furtively slip out on foot without his bag for house-calls. Of course I tailed him. Contrary to my expectations, he went into a reputable clothing store in a large building nearby. He selected an off-the-rack suit from their large inventory, paid for it, and brought it straight back to his office.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Regardless of how indigent a physician he was, Dr. Mera wasn’t the type to wear a ready-made suit. But if the suit was intended for an assistant, why did he buy it himself, and try to avoid being seen doing it? The man was out of his mind. What on earth was that suit for? I stood for a while gazing remorsefully at the entrance to the office into which the doctor had disappeared when I suddenly remembered the fence around back where I could spy into the doctor’s private room. I knew it was a long shot, but maybe I could catch a glimpse of him doing something in there. I quickly ran around to the back of the office.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I scrambled over the fence and cautiously peered in. The doctor was there all right. It was obvious that he was up to something truly bizarre.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You would never guess what that yellow-faced doctor was up to. He took the mannequin, the life-sized one I told you about a minute ago, and put the suit on it. Hundreds of glass eyes bore silent witness.
    </p>
    <p>
     “A detective novel writer such as yourself probably has a good idea by now what I am about to say. But at the time, I was stunned. The doctor’s evil plans took my breath away.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I’ll be damned if the suit which the mannequin wore wasn’t an exact duplicate of the one worn by the new renter, right down to the color and striped pattern! The doctor had picked out the same off-the-rack suit and brought it home.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I knew I had to act soon. It was supposed to be a moonlit night, so another terrible accident might occur. I had to do something, anything. I was at an utter loss, and racked my brains for a solution. Then, I amazed myself by coming up with an ingenious plan. When I tell it to you, you’ll want to shake my hand and congratulate me.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I made my preparations and waited for night, then carried a large bundle wrapped in a furoshiki cloth up to the cursed room. The new renter had gone home for the night, so the door was locked, but I used the spare key to open the door and enter the room. I put on clothes suitable for the night’s work. I turned on the desk lamp with the green shade, shining it on myself as though I were the room’s true occupant. I wore a suit I borrowed from a co-worker that closely resembled the same striped pattern. I also took care to part my hair in the same fashion to make myself look like the man from Osaka. I sat with my back to the window and patiently waited.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Needless to say, I took these steps to alert the yellow-faced man across the way to my presence, but I was careful never to look behind me and give him the chance he was waiting for.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I must have sat there for about three hours. Were my suspicions on target? And would my plans come to fruition? I was very impatient and spent three hours with my heart pounding. At my wit’s end, I wondered if I should turn around. I don’t know how many times I twisted my neck left and right.
    </p>
    <p>
     “My watch indicated that it was ten minutes past ten o’clock. I heard the hoot-hoot cry of an owl. A-ha, that was the signal. He used an owl call to get his victims to look out the window. Who wouldn’t go for a look if they heard an owl cry in the middle of the Marunouchi? When I realized what was afoot, I hesitated a moment longer, then got up from my seat, walked over to the window frame and opened the glass.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Bathed in moonlight, the building across the way shimmered silvery gray. As I said before, the building was of identical construction to the one I was in. It was queer to look at them. I’ve tried to convey a sense of it, but there’s really no way for you to understand that crazy feeling. It was as if an absurdly large mirrored wall suddenly sprang up before your eyes, and the building you were in was reflected back down to the last detail. Add some seductive moonlight to that physical double and you start to get the idea.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The window where I stood was directly opposite me. It was open, too. And there I was... No, there was something wrong with the mirror. The only thing that didn’t fit was me. Why wouldn’t it reflect me, too? Thoughts like this raced through my head. I couldn’t bear it. It was a trap deadly enough to make my hair stand on end.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The next thing I knew, I had disappeared somewhere. Only a moment ago I could have sworn I was standing right by the window. I restlessly scanned the other window. I couldn’t help myself.
    </p>
    <p>
     “And then, with a start, I found my reflection. Only it wasn’t in the window. It was on the wall. I was hanging from the crossbar of the telephone pole by a length of rope.
    </p>
    <p>
     “‘Ah, that’s where I went. I’m over there.’
    </p>
    <p>
     “It must sound ridiculous to hear me talk like this. But I can’t express that feeling in words. It was a nightmare... Yes, that’s right, a nightmare in which, try as you might, you still do something against your will. Let’s say you looked in the mirror and even though your own eyes were open, the image reflected back to you had its eyes shut. What would you do? Would you be able to resist shutting your eyes, too?
    </p>
    <p>
     “Well, I was forced to imitate my reflection in the mirror and hang myself. Across the way I had hanged myself. The real me couldn’t just stand there and watch.
    </p>
    <p>
     “My hanged body didn’t look the least bit frightening or repulsive. It looked beautiful. Like a picture. I felt the urge to make myself become that beautiful picture.
    </p>
    <p>
     “It’s possible that without the magic of moonlight, Dr. Mera’s weird trick would have been completely useless.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Of course you must have figured it out by now, but the doctor’s trick was to dress the mannequin in the same clothes as the occupant of the room and to show it hanging itself from a length of rope attached to the same block of wood on the telephone crossbar. It was actually a very simple affair.
    </p>
    <p>
     “He used the buildings of perfectly identical construction and seductive moonlight to brilliant effect.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Even though I knew his trick in advance, I had almost carelessly thrown one leg over the side of the window before I came to my senses and stopped myself.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I fought against that fearsome compulsion as if I were shaking off the effects of anesthesia. I unraveled the furoshiki cloth which I’d prepared, and unblinkingly watched the opposite window.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Seconds slowly ticked by... and then my intuition proved correct. That yellow face which belonged to none other than Dr. Mera, appeared suddenly in the window to watch me die.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I was waiting for him. What would happen if I didn’t snare him in that instant?
    </p>
    <p>
     “Grasping the object in the furoshiki and holding it up with both hands, I quietly rested it on the edge of the window sill.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Can you guess what it was? Naturally, it was a mannequin. I borrowed one from the same clothing store and put a morning coat on it similar to the kind Dr. Mera always wore.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Just then the moonlight was shining close to the bottom of the canyon, and by its pearly-white reflection my window was clearly visible.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I felt as though I were locked in a duel as I stared at the devil across the way. ‘Come on, you bastard!’ I cursed in my head.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Would you believe it? God endowed man with the same fate as monkeys, after all. Dr. Mera was caught in the same trap he had devised for others.
    </p>
    <p>
     “The little old man pathetically straddled the window frame and did just what my mannequin did – he sat right down.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I was the puppet master.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I stood behind the mannequin. If I raised its arms, the doctor raised his.
    </p>
    <p>
     “If I shook its legs, the doctor shook his.
    </p>
    <p>
     “And what do you think I did next?
    </p>
    <p>
     “I killed him.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I gave the mannequin sitting on the windowsill a good shove with all my might. It gave out a hollow clatter and disappeared from view.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Almost instantaneously, the old man in his morning coat opposite me followed suit. Imitating his reflection, he silently leapt into the night air and plunged to the bottom of the canyon!
    </p>
    <p>
     “And then, I faintly heard a sound like something had smashed... Dr. Mera was dead.
    </p>
    <p>
     “As on the previous nights when that yellow face laughed its hideous laugh, I reeled in the string I held in my right hand – the borrowed mannequin I sent over the windowsill rose nimbly and I brought it back inside the room.
    </p>
    <p>
     “If I had left it lying around, I would have been a prime suspect for murder, don’t you agree?”
    </p>
    <p>
     His story finished, the young man eerily laughed as I imagine the yellow-faced doctor did. He observed me closely.
    </p>
    <p>
     “What was Dr. Mera’s motive for murder? I don’t need to tell that to a writer of detective novels such as yourself. You know well enough yourself that even without a motive, a murderer lives to kill.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The young man got up with an expression that would not countenance a response and quickly walked away.
    </p>
    <p>
     Moonlight mercilessly flooded over me as I watched him disappear into the misty night. For a while I remained motionless on the sitting stone.
    </p>
    <p>
     My encounter with the young man, his story, and yes, even the young man himself – were these not created by what he called the “bewitching power” of moonlight? It might have been nothing but an illusion; but then again, who knows?
    </p>
   </p>
   <p>
    <div>
     <head>
      The Dancing Dwarf
     </head>
    </div>
    <p>
     Odoru issun bōshi · 1927
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hey Roku, what are you waiting for? Why don’cha come here and join us for a drink?”
    </p>
    <p>
     Standing in front of an open cask of sake, the strongman, who was wearing purple trunks fringed with gold thread over his tights, spoke in a deceptively gentle voice.
    </p>
    <p>
     There was something suggestive in his manner that attracted the attention of the inebriated men and women in the troupe toward Roku the dwarf. Leaning against a wooden post in a corner of the stage, Roku watched their merrymaking from afar. Good-natured fellow that he was, as usual he curled up his florid mouth at the invitation and grinned.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Aw, liquor’s no good for me!”
    </p>
    <p>
     When they heard this, the slightly drunken acrobats laughed as though they had heard something funny. The men’s salty voices and the high-pitched tittering of the fat ladies reverberated throughout the large tent.
    </p>
    <p>
     “We can tell just by looking at you that you’re a teetotaler. But today’s special, ain’t it? We made a nice heap of change, see, so we’re celebrating. Even a cripple like you can take a swallow now and then.”
    </p>
    <p>
     Once again the strongman softly repeated his offer. He was an imposing, heavyset man, about forty years old, with dark-colored lips.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Naw, liquor’s no good for me!” the dwarf responded, still grinning. He was a monster with the body of an eleven- or twelve-year-old child and the face of a man of thirty. His head was round as a doll’s, and deep wrinkles like a spider spreading its legs lined his bulbous face. He had large, bulging eyes and a flat nose. Whenever he laughed, his wide mouth stretched so far on both sides it almost disappeared behind his ears. A sparse, unkempt beard added to his incongruous appearance. His lips stood out a strangely bold red against the pallor of his skin.
    </p>
    <p>
     “If I pour you a drink, you’ll join us, won’t you Roku?” asked Ohana, the beautiful ball tumbler, in a confident tone, and with a smile playing at her lips, her face slightly reddened from alcohol.
    </p>
    <p>
     Everyone in the village had Ohana’s name on the tip of their tongue and I was no exception.
    </p>
    <p>
     The dwarf looked straight at Ohana and winced slightly. A curious expression momentarily crossed his face. Was it a monster’s feeling of shame? But he continued to fidget, until he finally blurted out the same thing.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Naw, liquor’s no good for me.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He was still smiling as before, but he spoke in a low voice as though the words stuck in his throat.
    </p>
    <p>
     “C’mon, don’t say that, have just one drink.”
    </p>
    <p>
     The strongman strode forward with determination and grabbed the dwarf by the arm.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Now I’ve got you. There ain’t no getting away now,” he said, and briskly jerked Roku by the arm.
    </p>
    <p>
     Though he didn’t look well suited for the role of a clown, Roku indignantly protested like a girl of eighteen, grabbing hold of the post and refusing to budge.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Leggo, leggo!”
    </p>
    <p>
     The strongman was unrelenting, and before long the post Roku was holding gave way. The interior of the tent shook as though shaken by a strong wind, and the acetylene gas lamp swung like a seesaw.
    </p>
    <p>
     For some reason I had a bad feeling about it. The sight of the dwarf stubbornly clinging to the post and the strongman no less obstinately struggling to dislodge him gave me a dire foreshadowing of what was to come.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ohana, forget about Tom Thumb over there, how’s about a song? Whaddya say, give us a tune.”
    </p>
    <p>
     To my surprise, this needling request came from the magician beside me. In spite of his long mustaches, which drooped like an inverted V, he spoke with a strangely foppish lisp. An obviously drunk older woman, who looked like a newcomer to the troupe, laughed bawdily and called out in agreement.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ohana, now there’s a sharp idea. Let’s make some noise.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Great, I’m gonna get some pots and pans for us to bang on,” announced a young acrobat. He, too, was only dressed in a pair of tights. He leapt out of his seat, weaved his way past the struggling dwarf and strongman, and bounded into the second floor dressing room, which was held up by wooden posts.
    </p>
    <p>
     Without waiting for him to return, the droopy-mustached magician beat the cover of the sake cask, and in a harsh, raucous voice sang a comical sankyoku manzai.1 Two or three of the ball-tumbling girls playfully joined in. In situations like this, the dwarf Roku was always the object of torment. In vulgar tones they wove his name into one verse after another.
    </p>
    <p>
     Gradually these cheers overtook the troupe’s scattered conversations and partying, until everyone was singing along. Before I knew it, they were being accompanied by a samisen, taiko drum, gong, and wooden clappers, no doubt brought by the young acrobat. The sound was deafening as a giant orchestra, enough to make the tent shake. Roaring voices and handclaps punctuated each verse. Women and men alike became more riotous as the sake flowed.
    </p>
    <p>
     In the midst of this, the dwarf and the strongman were still going at it. Roku had let go of the post and laughingly leapt back and forth like a little monkey. He was remarkably agile. The burly strongman, who was being made a fool of by the dull-witted dwarf, was losing his temper.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You little shrimp, wait till I get a hold of you. You’re gonna pay for this,” he thundered as he chased after the dwarf.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Lemme alone, lemme alone!”
    </p>
    <p>
     He had the face of a thirty-year-old, but the dwarf fled in panic like a schoolboy. He was desperate to avoid being nabbed by the strongman and getting his head dunked in the sake cask.
    </p>
    <p>
     The sight of them oddly reminded me of the death scene in Carmen, when fierce music and shouting voices as in a bullfighting arena surround the imbroglio between Jose and Carmen. I don’t know why, but their clothes also made me associate them with Carmen. The dwarf wore the dusky red costume of a jester. The strongman in purple trunks was in pursuit. The samisen, gong, and clappers, not to mention the riotous chorus of voices, were raising the roof.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Now I’ve got you, you runt!” the strongman roared at last. Poor Roku trembled in his viselike grip, white as a sheet.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hey, get outta the way.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He raised the writhing dwarf over his head and brought him toward us. Everyone stopped singing and looked on. You could hear the two of them panting heavily.
    </p>
    <p>
     Before we knew it, the upended dwarf’s head had been plunged into the sake cask. Roku’s short arms writhed in mid-air. Sake splashed and sprayed.
    </p>
    <p>
     The half-naked men and women of the troupe, some dressed in red-and-white striped tights, others in flesh-toned tights, slapped hands and stamped their feet. There was coarse laughter. No one lifted a finger to stop this cruel sport.
    </p>
    <p>
     After being forced to swallow his fill of sake, the dwarf was flung to one side. He curled up in a ball coughing like a man with the whooping cough. A yellowish fluid gushed from his mouth, nose, and ears. As if to mock his suffering, the sankyoku manzai chorus rose up once more, a torrent of intolerable insults.
    </p>
    <p>
     When his coughing fit ceased, Ohana danced over the dwarf, who lay there exhausted and half-dead. Her nubile legs frequently straddled him.
    </p>
    <p>
     The sound of hand clapping, shouting, and wooden clappers assailed the ears. There wasn’t a sane person left in the troupe. They were raving mad to the last man. Ohana danced a savage gypsy dance to the quick tempo of a sankyoku manzai.
    </p>
    <p>
     Roku eventually managed to open his eyes. His unhappy face was flushed as though from imbibing too much alcohol. His shoulders heaving, he unsteadily rose to his feet. At that very moment, the fatigued ball tumbler’s ample bottom loomed right before the dwarf’s eyes. Whether by accident or conscious design, she fell over on her backside and landed on his face.
    </p>
    <p>
     His head nearly crushed, Roku let out a plaintive howl and writhed under Ohana’s buttocks. The drunken Ohana pretended to ride horseback on Roku’s face. Matching the beat of the samisen and calling out, “Hey, hey!” she slapped Roku’s cheeks with the flat of her hand. Guffaws exploded from all around. There was noisome clapping. But the suffocated Roku, who lay trapped under her large body, could do nothing but endure the abuse.
    </p>
    <p>
     When everyone laughed themselves out, the dwarf was released. Sure enough, before long he had a foolish grin on his face and pulled himself up into a sitting position. In a joking tone of voice, he muttered, “You guys are terrible.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Who’s up for a game of football?”
    </p>
    <p>
     The young marksman suddenly screamed. Everyone seemed to know exactly what he had in mind.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Sounds like fun,” responded one of the acrobats.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Quit it already, he’s had enough,” the magician with the inverted-V mustache said disapprovingly. Among the troupe, he alone was dressed handsomely, in a fine flannel suit with a red necktie.
    </p>
    <p>
     The young marksman made his way toward the dwarf as if he had not heard a word the magician said.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Okay Roku, here we go.”
    </p>
    <p>
     He wasted no time pulling the cripple up and delivering a vicious open-handed slap right between Roku’s eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
     Reeling from the blow, the dwarf spun around in a circle like a ball and fell over backwards. A second young man caught the cripple by the shoulder and pulled him forward, only to slap him again in the forehead. Poor Roku wobbled in the opposite direction and landed back in the hands of the first young man. This cruel and bizarre game of catch was repeated more times than I cared to count.
    </p>
    <p>
     At some point the chorus broke into a folk song, briskly accompanied by samisen and wooden clappers. The dizzy dwarf wore an implacable smile on his face as he kept up his strange role.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Cut out the disgusting behavior already. Let’s see everyone show off their talents,” cried someone weary of tormenting the cripple.
    </p>
    <p>
     This suggestion was received with wild-sounding cries of assent and thunderous applause.
    </p>
    <p>
     “None of the usual stunts. It’s gotta be the stuff you keep hidden up your sleeve. Anyone got a problem with that?” the strongman in the purple trunks commanded.
    </p>
    <p>
     “First joke’s on Roku,” someone added spitefully.
    </p>
    <p>
     There was a smattering of applause. Exhausted and on the verge of collapse, Roku nevertheless greeted this sadistic proposal with his indefatigable smile. He smiled even when he should have been crying.
    </p>
    <p>
     “I have an idea,” the beautiful tumbler Ohana cried, and unsteadily stood up.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Tom Thumb. You’re going to do Mustache’s magic trick. Come on, take a stab at the Beauty in the Guillotine Box. Have you got the guts?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Heh-heh-heh.” The dwarf stared into Ohana’s face and started to cackle. The alcohol he’d been forced to drink made his eyes shine strangely.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hey Tom, you love me, don’t you? If I give you an order, you have to do whatever I say. I’m going to climb into that box. Can you handle it?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh-ho, look at the lusty little fellow!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Yet again there was tremulous applause and laughter.
    </p>
    <p>
     The unusual prospect of Tom Thumb and Ohana performing the Beauty in the Guillotine Box amused the drunken troupe. To the rowdy stamping of feet, they began setting up the equipment for the trick. The black curtain was drawn across the front of the stage. There was a black mat on the floor. A wooden box the shape of a coffin and a table were brought in.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Start the show!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Samisen, gong, and wooden clappers provided the customary prelude. On cue Ohana and her sidekick appeared on stage. Ohana wore a skintight, flesh-toned leotard. Roku was dressed in his baggy red jester’s costume. And as always, there was a grin on his wide mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Deliver the prologue!” someone yelled.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh brother, I dunno what to say,” the dwarf mumbled as he collected himself and began an introduction.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Er, ladies and gentleman, we are about to present the amazing magic trick called the Beauty in the Guillotine Box. The young lady here will climb into the box at my side. I will take fourteen genuine Japanese swords and insert them one at a time from all sides. But, uh, that wouldn’t quite be enough entertainment. So we are gonna lop off the young lady’s neck and put her severed head on the table. Ahem.”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Brilliant, brilliant!”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Great impersonation!”
    </p>
    <p>
     It was difficult to tell whether the cries interspersed with raucous hand clapping were real praise or jeers.
    </p>
    <p>
     Although the dwarf looked like an imbecile, this was his true calling, and his speech on stage was impressive. From his intonation to phrasing, there was virtually no difference from the mustached magician who always did it.
    </p>
    <p>
     The beautiful ball tumbler Ohana gave a flirtatious little bow, and disappeared with feline grace into the coffin-like box. The dwarf shut the lid and secured the large bolt.
    </p>
    <p>
     More than a dozen Japanese swords lay in a pile on stage. One by one Roku picked them up and stuck them into the floor to prove they weren’t fake. Then he began to thrust them into the open holes around the box. With each sword came a terrible shriek from inside the box – the same horrible screams which the audiences heard daily.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Help, oh, please help me! Oh God, the brute really wants to kill me! Oh no, oh, help me, please help!”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ha-ha-ha!”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Brilliant, brilliant!”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Great impersonation!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Each person in the audience expressed his or her approval with shouts and hand clapping.
    </p>
    <p>
     One, two, three... Gradually one sword after another went into the box.
    </p>
    <p>
     “You finally figured it out, you ugly wench?” The dwarf started in again with his routine. “You made a fool of me one too many times. Now you know what it feels like to be a cripple, doncha?”
    </p>
    <p>
     “Oh no, oh, please help, someone help me!”
    </p>
    <p>
     The box plugged full of swords trembled like a live thing.
    </p>
    <p>
     The audience was riveted by this truly menacing performance. There was a thunderclap of applause.
    </p>
    <p>
     Finally the fourteenth sword slid into the box. Ohana’s screams changed to the cries of the mortally wounded, then diminished to shallow gasps. Soon these too gave out, and the quivering box went stock-still.
    </p>
    <p>
     With heaving shoulders, the dwarf took deep breaths and stared at the box. His face was drenched with sweat as though a cup of water had been poured over it. For a long interval he did not move a muscle.
    </p>
    <p>
     The audience went strangely quiet. The only sound to break the silence was the rough breathing of drunken people.
    </p>
    <p>
     Eventually Roku roused himself and picked up the cleaver which had been specially set aside. It had a wide, serrated edge like a Chinese halberd. This, too, he lightly embedded in the floor to show its bite, then released the bolts on the box and raised the lid. With the cleaver in hand, he reached into the box. A grisly chopping sound issued forth as though he were actually chopping off her head.
    </p>
    <p>
     Striking a mie pose2 to show he had cut off her head, he threw down the cleaver. Concealing something in his arms, he walked over to the table at his side and plunked it down on the tabletop.
    </p>
    <p>
     When he lifted his arms, Ohana’s gruesome severed head came into view. Red blood poured from the lacerated area. No one dared to imagine the blood was fake.
    </p>
    <p>
     A sensation cold as ice ran down my back and set the hair on my neck standing on end. I knew that there were two mirrors at right angles under the table, and that Ohana’s body was hidden inside a trap door in the floor. The magic trick had been performed much as it always is. The question is, what gave me this fearful sense of foreboding? Was it the dwarf’s foul countenance that belied his usually meek demeanor?
    </p>
    <p>
     The dwarf in his red jester’s costume, with arms outstretched, was superimposed against the black background like a scarlet blot. At his feet lay the bloodstained cleaver. He turned to the audience, his face wordlessly filled with triumph. But what was that faint sound? Could it be the clattering of teeth from his chalk-white face?
    </p>
    <p>
     The audience bit their tongues. They furtively exchanged glances as though they were seeing something they could not believe. The strongman sprang to his feet. He took two or three bounds straight for the table. Obviously he couldn’t bear to wait any longer.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ha-ha-hah!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Suddenly there came a lively woman’s laugh.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Tom Thumb really had you spooked. Ha-ha-hah!”
    </p>
    <p>
     Of course it was Ohana’s voice. Her bluish head laughed on the tabletop. The dwarf abruptly swung around and concealed it in his arms. He then hurried directly back stage behind the black curtain. All that remained was the trick table.
    </p>
    <p>
     The audience was so overwhelmed by the dwarf’s performance that for a while they did nothing but catch their breath. Even the magician stood slack-jawed in astonishment. But it only took a single shout to rock the tent.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Let’s raise him up on our shoulders for a cheer!”
    </p>
    <p>
     At this the entire troupe rushed behind the black curtain. In the heat of the moment, several of the drunken acrobats lost their footing and toppled over in a heap. One pulled himself up and staggered ahead. Some of the troupe members were already out cold around the empty sake cask like fish tossed up on a riverbank.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Hey, Roku!”
    </p>
    <p>
     I heard someone calling to him from behind the black curtain.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Roku, you don’t have to hide. Come on out!” someone else shouted.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ohana!” a woman shouted.
    </p>
    <p>
     There was no reply.
    </p>
    <p>
     I shook with unspeakable fear. Was that the real Ohana whose laugh we heard? Or had that inscrutable freak blocked off the trap door in the floor in order to actually murder her and cut off her head? Didn’t it occur to those foolish acrobats that it wasn’t the voice of the dead woman, but a breathing technique he used to project his voice? He could have used this weird art with his mouth shut to produce a sound from his abdomen as though it was the dead woman speaking. I wondered if there was any way to find out whether that monster had mastered such a skill.
    </p>
    <p>
     Before I knew it, the tent was filled with a thin layer of smoke. It was unlikely the acrobats’ cigarettes caused the blaze. Without further thought I raced for a corner of the spectator’s seats.
    </p>
    <p>
     As I feared, reddish-black flames were lapping at the foot of the tent. They had already spread to all four corners.
    </p>
    <p>
     I crawled under the burning canvas and made for open space. A broad expanse of fields was bathed in white moonlight. I trusted my legs and ran for the nearest house.
    </p>
    <p>
     When I looked behind me, all but a third of the tent had gone up in flames. By now the fire had spread to the base of the posts and the wooden slats of the spectator seats.
    </p>
    <p>
     “Ha-ha-ha-ha!”
    </p>
    <p>
     I could hear the drunken acrobats laughing insanely from amidst the flames. What they were laughing at, I never knew.
    </p>
    <p>
     Who could it be? Atop a hill near the tent a figure like a child danced with his back to the moon. He frolicked madly, holding something round like a watermelon at his side as one would a lantern.
    </p>
    <p>
     Overcome with fear, I stood frozen to the spot watching the strange black shadow.
    </p>
    <p>
     He took the round object at his side in both hands and brought it up to his mouth. Stamping the ground, he began to gnaw on that watermelon-like thing. He took leisurely bites, and continued dancing with joy.
    </p>
    <p>
     The frenzied dance of the shadowy figure flickered black under the liquid moonlight. A thick, black fluid could be clearly seen dripping from the round object he held in his hands.
    </p>
   </p>
  </p>
 </body>
</TEI>
